ouanrou rou mua perornans. 329

improbable circumstance in tho charge, and against it directe thopffi

shasts of his eloquenco.

20. Nicaeam. Nice was tho capital of Bithynia, situated on the
lake Ascania. It was tho ccutral point of all tho main reads leading
to eastern and southern Auia, aud remarhable as being the town where
the first garreral coancil wan hcld, n. r). 325. Hence the Nicene

moed—Ephesum. Α city ol Asia Minor, remarkable lor populousnces.
Plin. 5,27, calls it lernen Anien. It and Nicaea were much resorted
to, end likely to have the earliest intelligeuce from Africa—Qui ra-
rnorcs . . . . exciperent. Hence tho accusation in ch. 8: regem . . ,.
in speculis firiaco, Τ he subjunctive by Z. 567.

21. aurun esset ei nunciatum· P. 0. 297, ος Z. not, and
Nolc.

22. Dominum. After tho dolcat ol Pharnaces, Domitius stayed
a short time to arrange the affairs of Asia, and then followed Cesar to
Africa. It was reported that he was lost on the voyage thither.-
Perisee. Z. 160, and Note.

23. circumsederi. Tho beginning ol the African war was not
altogether prosperous for Cmsar. Vcll. Pat. 2, 55, l: Ibi primo naria
sartioni, ruoz pirgaauit ezra inminereque finalium copim-Versum
Galacum Plutarch, de discr. ararici ct adulat. 5, has preserved it.-
’eppira φίλος eiu ἐχθρῷ.

25. Una inimici. Benecke and Klotz: inimici arra.

26. Quod ille. He shows that Deiotarus's disposition forbade
the idea of liis repeating so unfeeling a verse. But this is very doubt-
ful, as it is stated by Plutarch, dc Staio. reprrgn. 32, that he wae very
cruel (see Introduction, p. 311} in fin.) ; and by Strabo, 12, that he put
to death his daughter and her husband, Saocondarius.

et. aui. Ζ, 133, Note.

28. innitens .. . . iuimicus. For the hing’s application ol the
verse was, Pereat Domitius dum una Caesur intercidat. Cicero shows
that the double characteres friend to Domitius and enemy to Caesar
was a contradiction; therefore he could not have uttered tho verse.-
Tibi intuitione. And again, the verse assumed that Casei was iuimi-
cas Deiotari-05 but this could not bc, as Deiotarus nias the recipientes
innumerable savors from Caesar.

29. Belli lege. As fighting against him in Pharsalia.

30. Regem et se et filium. Hence ch. ta: Propone riti daos
reges.

31. Quid deludet Z. 769.-Farciser. Phidippus, whoasbe-
ing afugitive slave, was liahle to the punishment of carrying on his
neck a sarco, or species ol eroes.

32. Hac tentia = hujus rei laetitia3 nemely, at hearing of Caesar's
disasters. Both the relative and the demonstrative pronoun often at-
tach themselves to a following substantive, aud agree with it in geu-

28*

 

