onnrron son run nnururnu unw. 255

Fuge

When obtained, Pompey aslis lor his lieutenant this same Gabinius. 62
Such an attempt, leading to corrupt jobbing, was properly resided-
Expeteuti ac postulanti. On expetere, see note on p. 60, line 10.
Postulere = to make claims, or demand, with reasons of right and
equity, or in accordance with relations and circumstances. By the
Gabiniam law, Pompey, os Plutarch (Pomp. 25) informs us, was em-
powered to chnose out os the senators fifteen legates, or lieutenants, to
act under him. He actually chose twenty-tour (Plut. id. 26), which
number accorde more nearly with Appiau (B. lilith. 94), who gives
the number as twenty-five. The persons appointed to this office were
usually men os great military talento, aud were nominated by the
consul or dictator under whom they served5 bnt the sanction of the
senate tvae an essential point, without which no one could be legally
considered a legatus. But the senate baffled Gabinius in his savorite
project oi following Pompey into Asia, hy successsully opposing, or, at
least, delaying his electiori as one of the legates.

9. Idoneus . . . . qui impetret. What other adjectives have the
saure construction? Z. 568. Consult also Ρ. G. 486 and 212³&

14. periculo. For is Pompey had been unsucccsssul, the blame
would also have attached to the proposer ol the law by which Pompey
was put in command.

15. An G. Falcidius, dec. On the form of the sentence, see
note on p. 9, line 19. In the second member, the future or subjunc-
tive is ruore common.

16. Quos omnes· Not quoram omnes. Compare note ou p. 13,
line 333 aud see Z. 430, in tin-Honorio ceusu = out os respect,
with ull due respect.

18. Diligentes = strict, scrupulous, carehrl, sc. in adhering to
the rnle that tribunes should not bc appointed legates to a general
who had received his appointment during their tribuneship. Confir-
motion of the generals choice had become so much the rnle, that
Pompey must have deeply felt the rejection os Gabinius. To wound
hirn still more deeply, laws which, as Cicero claims, had in the case
of Falcidius and others been neglected, or not applied, were revived
and applied against Gabinius3 viz. that no one who had proposed a
bill should participate in the commission under it. Klotz retains: in
hoc nuo Gabinio.

20. Per vos· By your suffrages = cestrie suffragiis, at the eud
of the chapter.

21. heberet. The subjunctive imperfect refers to the implied
conditional clause, oi esset in exercitu Pompeii.

22. Ego me profiteor relaturum. Since a legatio required a
decree of the senate, it was necessary, if Gabinius wasto ho a legate
to Pompey nuder the blanilian law. that a decree should approve.
And as it devolved first upon the consuls to propose the question, Ci-

 

