294 noras.

ἓξ 1.ancbatoccidt. Z. ort-Nono postulante. Z. fita-Pra-

rnns. He offered a reward os tivo talents for the head of any proscri-
bed person.

2. (tuae tamen crudelitas non Sullae sed eorum, qnos ipse pra-
miis inritauerat—Aliquot unitis post. Seventeen years afterwards3

for Sulla was chosen dictator in tho year of Rome 672, and in the
year 696 Caesar, as president of the precatio de sien-tir, extended the
prosecutions to those who, during Sulla's proscriptions, had murdered
Roman citizens for money. See Suet. Cres. ll; Dion Cass. 37, lfl.
Benecke considers from qna temen to vindicata est nn interpolation.

Cu. V.-5· Novi ellim te, &e The anaphora or repetition of
novi, may be nonced, which contributes te the animation and energy
of the diseourse. In the second member the order is iuverted, making
the arrangement of the period chiastic.

6. Studia generis ac familiae vestre virtutis, &c This is
again au instance of several genitives limiting the same noun in differ-
ent relations. Gerzerir and sentina are genitivos of the subject, the
others of the object. Z. 423 and tat—Generis, i. e. gentis, the AEhan,
of which the Tnberos were a familie, among the Lamia, Pati, &a
On the virtue and learning of the AElians, to which Cicero frequently
alludes, see de Oret. 1, 45, 1983 Brut. 20, in.‚ and 56, 205. Of the
family of the Tuberos, the most prominent uras the grandfather of the
accuser, Q. AElins Tubero Stoicus, ot'r eruditas . . . et honestus honre
et nobilis. p. Mareu. 36, 75.

ἵ. plurimarum artium atque optimarum. By this the Ro·
mans understood the erudiebamur, the study ef philosophy, history,
eloquence and poetry. Benecke brackets these words, because they
are not found in Gon. cit, and he regards them as a gloss on the
preceding teineritatis, doctrina. Klotz and Soldan, tuith Ernesti,
remove the comma and connect thern with doctrina. The common
text has stadia denique . . . . netu sunt initi ornain. KIotz aud Sot-
dnn also retain orante, placing a colen before reeta, and making notu
tirilri eunt eirenen a general conclusion.

9. Res eninr eo spectat, i. e. eam vini habet. He accuses them
es unintentional cruelty3 because Ligarius being already in ente, any
punishment must be worse than that, i. e. must be death.

10. Ut....non videamini. Z. eae-In prenuncia aeta.

12. Sicuti est. This is a formula of frequent occurrence, used
to confirm the trnth ot what has been previously expressed condition-
ally.

13. Ignoscatur. Benecke and KIotz read ignescet, sc. Caesar.
What is the construction of ignescetarf—Hec vere multe acerbiter.
This denial of pardon is harder than death itself. The love ef coun-

try was strong in the Romans, and hence the misery of perpetual
exile.

 

