enarrou roa r. Anulus uruo. 387

' frige
propria est, ut autequam argumentationes impleat, victoriam proelibet 108
in ipsis propositionibus.

43. Iu senatu. Referring to the account given by Q. Metellus
Scipio, before illilo tras accused⁴ Klotz: Scpe ob iriiruicis jactate
sunt et iri concione sepe ab iruprolris, dte.

2. Negant, &e 'illisis a fundamental proposition of the accuso-109
tion. It is tho lex talionis3 life for lif . But the penalty of death did
not attach to the condemned Milo For the languege is, l. negant
sas¹ esse: 2. civil death was, in theyicw of a Roman, equivalent to
the punishment of natural death.

ii. Prtmnm· 'rue first on record, or oldest traditionary capital
trial, where prouocatio art populoru and a judiciuin populi were euer-
cisetl3 Dion, Hei. 3, 22: γινόμενος δέ dirraradripeu rpiecosrdrerpo‘rrorb
'Populati ὂῆμος elprae.

5. ut. Horatii. The story of Horatiusy who slew his own sister,
for mourning over tho fate of her lover, onc of the Curiatii, whom ho
hod just slain, is given hy Lupi, eft-Neaera libero civiate. stili
under hingly gouernrueut, aud therefore rnoro nnlihely to bo influenced
by popular feeling.

o. Tamen. With reference to the implied quamquam iu the por-
tieipial construction. Z. 635, Nota-Cominio. As this was before the
institution of tho comitio centuriata end tributo, wc must supply
cio-ieris with comitiis.

e. Recte etJure fectum. Cf. 6, 15, and o, 23. Recte ruuyre·
fer to natural and jure to positive law, unless we taho them os a cir-
ottrnlocntion. The distinction is tehen between oquestiou of law aad
a question of fact.

lt). Nisi vero· Z. 5oo.-P. Africanum Minorem. Cf. de Orat.

2, 25, lilii.

ll. C· oar-bone. He rues tribune u. u. o. 623, ¹end e contempo-

rary and friend of the Gracchi. Val. Max. b, Ξ, informs ns thot Carbo,
⁸ when he was enciting the people to reuenge the death ol C. Gracchus,
lioped to be assisted in attaining this object by the weight end author-
ity of Africanus, the husband os Sempronia, tlre sister ol the Gracchi,
who he irnagiued could uot avoid speaking in soror ol' his hrotlrer-in·
low. He therefore drogged Scipio to the sorum, before he hud well

entered the city, and put to him the interrogation iu the text.
12. seditiose. Cf. ehssl, te.

13. Jure eaesum is a legat formula. When Scipio Africanus in
Numantia heard of the death of Ti Gracchus, he is said to hove ex-
claimed: br trelino roi ἄλλος, ὅ τις τοιαῦτά γε ligm- Pluth'· Gl'a⁶⁶·2l·

le. Ahala ille ServiHus. Notiee the order. Usually the no-
uieu precedes the cognomen. On the persons here mentioned, ⁵2ss lin
Gur, ehaps. 1 oud 2.

15. Me consule, senatus· Cicero elsewhere is iu the habit of

 

