320 sorus.

ἒξ 12· Et veuit, &c The fourth excuse, from the concomitans

circumstances—Vel . . r . uel . . . . vel Z. 336, 3³9.

1³. Evocatus. Benecke and Soldan reud uocatus, und consider
inuppropriate the particular meaning ol euocatus ns applied to avete-
rnu who has served his full time and received hie discharge, hut ie ul-
tervvarde called to the field by special request, or, es a compliment to
his military experience, on special occasions. For arcessitus, Be·
necke, Klotz, and Madvig give the loun, accersitus.

1¹1· nd fugientem, dac. Not to avictorious general, but a re-
treating friend. For Pompey had fled lrom Italy to Graece. There-
sore Deiotarus's conduct was perlectly disinterested.

16. Pharsalico proelio facto. The fifth excuse, from tho sub-
sepuent conduct ol Deiotarus—Discessit. Nec tamen contiuno;
Pompeium enimes Pharsalico proelio profugum secutus, in Cilicia vel
in litore Icario expositus est, ut Orientis regua in auxilium illius con-
citaret.

17. laniatam = positam in bello, quod qnando finem hahiturrrm
esset, incertum erat3 vague, uncertain.

18. Errori . . , satisfactum esse auxit. Cf. p. leg. Meu h 17:
uectigalia neruos esse . . . . dexianus ; p. llil. 8, 22: erruuus esse du-
cebut; and below, ᾧ ll: tunsisque bostem esse duxit suum—Satis-
soeere errori est satis errare, nec lougius in errore progredi vel perse-
verare.

19. Utilitatibus tuis paruit = fecit quidquid utilitates ture pos-
tulabant. They are enurrrcrated below. His aiding Domitius, send·
ing money (most probably) to Sextus Caesar, frequently aristioning his
goods to mise supplies, &c The common text gives contulit, leque
Alex. bell. gerente erit. dee, which Benecke, Soldan, and Madvig
retain? Gaesar had pursned Pompey into Egypt, and there, captiveted
hythe charms ef Cleopatra, he had espoused her quarrel with her
brother Ptolemy, and involved himself iu avvervvith the Alexandrinus.

20, Cu. Domitii. 'ruis Cn. Domitius Calvinus was consul
s. u. c. 701. In the battle ol Pharsalia he commanded the centro,
and when Caesar went to Egypt, he intrusted to Calvinus the admin-
istration os the previrrce ol Asia and the neighboring countries. Do·
mitius here became involved in a vvarvvlth Pharnaces, the son of Mith-
ridates‚ by whom he vves defeated in the neighborhood of Nicopolis.

21. Suis tectis et copiis. The former understand ef quarters
and supplies, the latter os forces Deiotarus lurnished to Domitius tivo
legions aud a hundred horsemen in the war against Pharnaces. Hirt.
Bell. altercer, 35. Hoc tamen loco potius loquitur de alimentis ae

receptione in oppida regie. Orelli.
22. Eum, quem tu, &c The individuel here intended is doubt·
ful. Some have referred it to Q. Fufius Calenue3 but he was then

 

