onnriou Fon THE Ponr Auculns. 359

l. Tempestivis conviviis. Tempestion convivio are to bc uir-ppffie

derstood of cntertainments which cummeneo carly, before the ninth
hour, i. e. before threo o'cloch in the ettennon, which ivos the usual
honr for the otene, and entend late into the night. Intempestive in
this connection is an old orror still met with in some editions-Aloeolo.
Nauck prefers the common text otoo. itti-otis is the gaming heard
or table, the place of the gamo for the gamo itself.

2. Pilae. See Diet. Antip. Prin.

3. Atque hoc adeo, doc. The odeo is to he joined with hoe.
Hand. “constan a Latinis particulam odeo, ut a Graecis particulam
γε’, tum usurpatam esse, cum res aliqua, de qua jain anto dictum erat,
majorevi efferenda erat: eaque significatione saepissime conjunctam
inveniri curn pronominibus is et hie.” S. (who, however, rejects adeo
in Ed. 23 ohserving that, conmron as id odeo is, hoe odeo is not
found.) Madvig: Atque hoc ideo, deo. Nanch: Atque id eo miti,
dec, comparing Leti t, 15: idpne co mihi inagis, διας and Acod. 2,
1, 23 Suet. Ceo. 81. Stiirenhurg: etque hoo id initi.

4. Oratio et facultas: (nearly) orationisfoooltoe Cf. poet red.
insen. c. 13, jodioio ot posteritati. Oret. omes: victore etque sense
:sensu naturali. Z. 741. Forcrescit,Nanokprelersceooeter.

5. Quantaerurque = quantulocunque. But it must be remembered
that it meone ‘¹ however great? “to whatever inogoitude it renches;”
though the orator modestly implieo that it is asmah one. Cf. de Oret
2, 28, 122: Atque ege io, qui sotir, quantuscunque sum od judicen-
dvm, doc. S. Klotz omits est.

6. Quae summa sunt, i, e. “ recte vivendi precepta, quae philoso-
phia continentur? “Thai which is the highest that man can attain;”
namely, prInciples to gnido him in practical life.

8- Literis, “sveni literorp worhs;'¹ the worlrs of poen, historiens,
orators, philosophers. Literce are opposed to precepto, which are irn-
parted oioo voce: the sapientium uoces, afterwards mentioned.

9. Nisi laudem. Laos is here well-founded pratee ; a good rep·
utotion fairly won. ntannioe observes that the Greeks, on the con-
trary, nse the nomes virtue, viee, respectively‚ sor the preioe or cen-
sore that follows them: τὴν ἀρετὴν κτήσασθαι = tondent virtutis cotn-
potore.

10. maiestatem. Cf. o 15: teredone et eii-tutem.

11. Omnia.. . . exsilia, “ nti kinds of hnnishment.” Madvig:
exsilii.

12. Iu tot . . . . dimicationes . . . . objecissem· Cf. Gleent. 41,
113: Nego rem esse allent io qrioinqooin iliorum objiciam, qrtce, &c
So offerre with tn, as well as with dat: e. g. pre Soet. l, l: qui (tlt-
‹tei-ent se et volutem soom in discrimen offerre pro stote civitatis et
pro coronarii libertate. A reason for not choosing the dative after
objicere, which is its more common construction, may in this instance

 

