&mh

W·—

HANDBOOK

OF

uuuthvtc duoeulruv lul) ultioni.

ΒΥ

wttuetw Ρυτῑ,
PRINCIPAL TUTOR iu THE GthNAslulu OF DUREN.

Translated from the Gcrmon hy

etv. tt. o. etot, ut,
Vicer ty St. Augustinus, Bristol, aad lale Fellew queeter Collega, Oasord.

lvqume, leno. 75 ets.

Hunos ot* CONTENTS.

l. Germany heloro the hligrationa
u The hligratious

THE MIDDLE AGES.

Ὲιᾚῃξιῑῆῗῗῐζῶἳῑίοᾱηι the Dissolution ofthe Western Emprre tothe secession os the Carlovin·
ίΔ ils ΕΞ.

Saooun Panion—From the Accession os the Carlovingiane and Abhosides to the first Crusade.

Turro Panion-Age osthe Crusades.

’ Founru Panion—From the Terrninatron osthe Crusades to the Diseovery demerita.

‘l The characteristics osthisvolume are: precium, condensation, and luminous arrangement.
lt ie precisely what it retends to lte-n matiual, a sure and conscientious guide sor the student
throughtheerookson tauglesotoledtavatuistory “ “ “ 'All the greatprinevplesot'this
extensive Period nre carelolly laid down, and the most important sacre skillully grouped around
them. There is no period ol History lor which it is more difficult to prepare e work like this,
and none sor which it is so much needed, The leading facts are well establishedy hut they ars
seattered over an immense space; the principles are ascertained but their development wtts
slow, unctioni, and interrupted. There rs c general breaking up oia greatoooy, and a parcelling
olit out among small tulus, concerning whom we have only a sew general data, and are lest to
annlogy and conjecture lor the details Then conto successive attempts at organization, each
more or less inde eudem, and all very imperfect At last, medem Europe hegins slowly to
emerge from thee uos, but still under sonus which the most diligent historian cannot always
comprehend. Το reduce such materialem a clear and definite sorm is a task os no small ditii-
cuiry, aud in which artial success deserves great praise. It is not too much to say that it has
never been so well sione within a composa eo easily rnastered, as in the little volume which ie
now offered to the publicu-Extremum American Prefoee.

“This translation os a foreign school-hook embraces a succinet and well arranged body os

facts concerning uuropeau and Asiatic history ond geography during the middle'ages, tie
sumished with printed questions, and it seems to he well adopted to its purpose, in all respecta
The mediveval period is one os the most interesting in the annals os the world, ond a knowledge
of its great men, aud os its progress in arte, arms7 govemtnent ond religion, is particularly im·
portant, since this period is the hasis ol our own social polity.¹’—Gomtvtereiol Arleertiser.

Η This is an immense amount olresearehcondensedinto a moderately sized volume, iu a way
which no one has patience to do buta German scholar. The heauty oithe work is its luminoue
arrangement. It is a guide to the student amitlst the intricaey of hlediaeval history, the most
difficolt period of the world to understand, when the Roman Empire was breaking up aud por·
celling out into smaller kingdoms, and every thing was in a transition state. lt was a period os
chaos from which modern Europe was at length to arise.

The author has bviefly taken up the prineipal politica] and soclal influentes which were
ectiug on society, and shown their hearing t‘rorn tho time previous to the tnigratious os the
Northern nations down through the middle ages to the sixteenth century, The notes on the
crusades are particularly veluahle, and the range ot ohservation embraces not only Europe hut
the uaso. To the student it will he a most valunhlo Hand-book saving him a world ot trouble
in hunting up authorities ond sacte.'¹—Ree. Dr, Κῷ, in Albaay State Regieter,

 

