272 noras.

agris pro airis, nt antitheta essent similiora, gerere quidem ree et fingere

accurate opponuntur—Quae iireiiqnain valenae, diligemur. Cs. Lat.
MS.

13. Tc vero, &e Tho orntorhere pasees in a lively and aui-
moted manner, to that which ie before his eyes, and by which there-
fore his seelings are more deeply and strongly movud.

14. Scnsnsqne ct os cernimus. So also Orelli, Schultz, and
Steinmetz. Whoso emotions, us dopicted on the coantenance, we
behold, expressiro os the desire to preserve wlrut os the state has es-
caped the fortune ol ivor. Forat oe, which Ernesti, Wolf, and Spal-
ing defend, some adopt the conjecture ol Faernus, and read cerastesque
eor, which Jacob also advocates. Eos, i. e. tales, smoothcs the con·
nection with the following ot.

l't. Parietes . . . . gestiunt. The lenguago becomes more and
more bold, us the orator rises to tho eompletion of his climax. cf.
Cloear. 6, 15.—rllediasfldiue. Z. 361, Noto.

18. ut mihi videtur. So Orelli, Schultz, and Steinmetz. We
should expect at mili videntur, as from God. Col. some editions read.
See references in nete on line 5 above, especially Krebs, Gaide,
413.

19. Illa auctoritas. The abstroct for the concrete=vir ille
maxime auctoritatis. Others understand it ef the former authority
and dignity el the senate. Jacob explains it as illi senatores adhuc
exulantes, regarding the pardon of Marcellus as an earuest of the
pardon os others.

Cn. IV.—2l. Equidem quum viderem. Atransitlonfrom
M. Marcellus to his kinsmen and family, whom the teors of C. Mar·
eellus bring to Cicero's mind—Incainparehili pietate. On the affec-
tien of C. Marcellus t'or his cousin Marcus, see ed Fani. 4, l, aud 9.
C. Marcellus was eonsul a. u. c. 704. He was at first a zealous and
uncomprornisiug advocate ol the party hostile to Caesar. He, however,
remained in Italy, and obtained the forgiveness er the conqueror. He
was the husband oi Gaesar's niece Octavia, and at a later period, as
such, enjeyed aplace of high consideration. He is osten consounded
with a brother of M. Marcellus, whose name was the same, and who
was consui n. o. c. 705. He appears te have perished in the civil
wars. For incomparabili Orelli. Schultz, and Steinmetz give coutine-
morabar, which variatien Klotz omits to notice.

22. irruerem, ef time, to denote what is casnal or accidental,
therefore not videtum. P. G. 489 ; Z. 578, 579, Nate.

23. obfudit. Ohfimdere denotes to everspread as with a flood 3
to throw es it were a cloud over any thing3 and conveys the idea
of something grave and sorrowsui. The word here seems sug-
gested hythe preceding, laerones. Sicut amaricationibus lacri-
mis, ita pectus Ciceronis dolore suffusum est.

 

