254 uerus.
Parc

n

ffl ³3. Delos. This island possessed an excellent harbor aud situa-
tion, lying in the route of those wlro tradod between Asia and Greece,
or Italy3 and, after tho overthrow ol Corinth by Mummius, was very
celebrated as o commercial place, until it wns almost destroyed by
the generals of Mithridates— Turn procul, temen nostris armis et opi-
bustuta.

35. Referta divitiis. By its commorce aud by the ooslly gifts
und depositos made in its temple. Cf. C. Nep. Arist. c. a-Ntnn ti-
urebat. Delos is instanced as furnislriug ucentrast between former
security aud present insecurity.

ss't. Appia jam via· This led from Rome to Capua aud across
to Brundisium. Where it touched the sea, or was noar to it, it was
insecure owing to the landiug of the pirates-Gurcbumus Because
we had not free aud unobstructed enjoyment of thom.

38. Non pudebat, dec. Pudori osse debuit oratoribus hinc (e
rostris) verba facere, quod potestatem illam maritimum ponitus anri-
sisset populus Romanus. Hortensius may be particularly alludod to
in reference tc §b 52 aud 5³.

40. Exuviis . . . . spoliis. Prode and rnonabice denote booty
only as a possession and gaiu that hasbeen made by conquest3 whereas
spolio aud exuvie, at the same time, are signs of victory aud of
honor. Do'd.

Cu. XIX-41. mrimo = mente, coneilio, with good intention, iu
good saith.

43. Ea, quae sentiebatis. Are such circumlocutione common?
Z. 714, 3.

44. Dolori suo. Dolor denotes au inward feeling of pain, as
from a wouud or hlow, especially when tho sensatico or feeling is
fresh. Liv. 41, 10, joins it u'ith indignatio, in which sense it may
here be taken. The people urere indignant at the wrougs and cou-
tumely they suffered from the pirates.

62 l. Una lex. The Gabiniam-Uvnsoir. Pompey.

3. Vere. The ill success of former generals iu their efforts to
suppress the pirates might have made the Roman supremacy appear
questionable. Now, however, it has at last recovered its true ascen-
deucy. ι

5. obtrectatum esse. lmporscnel, P. G. 255; Z. 412, in fin.;
Krebs, 171. On the meaning of obtrectare, see Aruold's Nepos,
Arist. l, l.

6. Gabinio dicam, anne Pompeio, an utrique. For the forms
of disjunctive questions, see Z. 554. Anne is uot frequently used, and
only iu the second member, and generally when the interrogative par-
ticle is omitted in thc first member.-Id qaod. P. 0. 36.

7. Ne legaretur A. Gabinius. In his tribunale ho procures
a law to be passed, investiug Pompey with supreme command.

 

