ORATION FOR T. ANNIUS MILO.

6. Μ. cato. He had defended Milobelore the people, and as ἧς
judge voted for his aequitiae-Et dixit. Z. 717.

10. Propter qnos, per quos, qnorum opera. Propter for per in
this usage, is perhaps limited to persons. See Z. 302.

14. Dedendi fuerunt. Z. 519.-Dcfcusorcsaecis‚ depulsores.

15. Quod minus moleste ferat, per μείωσιν pro qno se erigat,
consoletur.

16. Etiamsi quid ipsi accidat. This euphemism is not here,
as commonly, used of death, but of condemnation which would result
in exile, or civil (leeth. Cf. cb. 36, 99, and note on p. 109, line 2.

17. Sed questiones. That is, examinatione of slaves by torture.
The testimony of slaves was not believed, unless wrong from them by
tortore ; hence, tho rach is the means of strengthening the credibility
of the witness. The rach, as a means of compelling a free citizen,
when acensed, to confess, was foreign to the Roman republic. In the
crimiiial process, under the Roman law, the accuser must provehis
accusation, and it was liis business, before coming to the trial, to pro·
vide the means of proof. The declaratione of the slaves of the oppo-
site party often formed apart of the evidence ς hence, es the accuser,
the phrase: postulat seruilium. On the other side, the accused and his
party had to provide all weapons of defence against the attack ot the
accuser: therefore also the party of Milo moved for the torture of the
slaves of Clodius and his party. By the nova lex of Pompey the pro-
cess against illilo took a newturn, even in regard to the tortore of the
slaves The quaesitor Domitius decided that the slaves os illilo must
be subjected to tortore, and the slaves of Clodius were lihewise put
npon the rach, bnt, as Cicero represents it, on motion of Appius Clau-
dius, not, as has been said, upon motiones illilo’s party. Cicero here
presses this point, but thepassage has difficulties, because the orator
here designedly conlonnds two entirely different things. He repre-
sents the depositione of Clodins's slaves against Milo, derived by tor-
ture, as suspicions and invalid, because these slaves were produced by
the accuser, Appias Claudius, and because the whole proceeding in re-
gard to thern, shows the greatest partiality and hostility against hlilo.
Aeno ono could be a witness in his oirn case, so were the witnesses that
were entirely dependent upon one party inadmissible. Cicero first takes
thisview, and has at least soine right to it ; but lie then suddenly springs
to a wholly diberent point: Dii boni! qnid petest, elac, which does
not properly belong here at all, sor Clodius was dead, and illilo ivos the
rens. He does this, in order to spealr again of his favorite subject,
the incest of Clodius, under which siras included every species of
sacrilege, and to conclude α cenum-ie: In. remu de serae, &c He
here proposes lor the examinatien by toriure of the slaves ol Clodius
the question: Clodius insidias fecii llliloni'.l which is to him the
main question, to ansiver which affirmatively, he makes his prin-

36*

 

