arnse onnnron scarnen canimus. 155

12. Discessu ceterorum = quem ceteri discessissent. Ellenothfi

(ed Brut. 79, 273), on neseio quomodo diccessu meo discessit o sese,
says, “Hoc est aliud genus ablativorum absolutis satis similium, cau-
cam indicantium, ane tempore prior fuerit.” Cf. tinniente:
amicorum dccessn; where Seyffert agrees with Ellendt, and disap-
proves of tho classiiication of such ablativos under the oblatioe os time.
Z. b iic-Nason . . . . qui. Qui refers to the personal pronoun im-
plied irr nostru.

13. Praeneste, a town os Latium (now Pedestrinc); being two
hundred stadia from Rome, and very strongly sortified, was well suited
for insurrectional pnrposes, as was Capua on the other side, which
Catiliue also attempted to secure by C. Marcellus.

14. Novembribus. What part ol speech are the names of ibe
monthsi Ζ.38.

15. sensistine = nonne sensisti? Z. 352,

li. Nihil agis . . . . quod ego non modo audiam, sed enam
videam. The meaning required is plainly, “ you do nothing witti
Ι do not not only beor, int alno see ;’' but it does not seem possible
that this meaning can be expressed by these words, since the uideam
has no negative with it: so that the supposition of a non niodo for non
medonem can only explain the audiam. Madvig would read nibil
ogis quin ego non inodo audiam, sed etiam cideom (Opust. Ι. p. 143).
Hand approves of the nsual reading (against Orelli and Klotz), niiit
ogis, qood ego uon modo non audiam, sed etium non videtin,- i. e.
“ nihil quod uon dico me non audire, sed quod ego non videam? Orelli
observes that Madvig’s conjecture removes all the difficuliy3 and that,
in the same way, in pro Cincin. cte, the negative precedes and affecta
both of two closely united notions: ne con modo intrare, cerain etiem
adspicere . . . possim. Klotz (who is followed by Siipfle)‚ nd Tune.
2, 5, 14, disapproves of Madvig’s correction, and retains the reading of
the MSS. as given in onr text, which he renders, “ You think nothing
which Ι do not bear only, but also see and clearly pincerne?

Gn. IV.-1e. Recognosce tandem. Cicero having mentioned
all Catiliue’s attempts against the state, concludes by speaking of the
meeting of the conspirators in the house ol M. Laeca. Madvig, in his
Opusc. alt. p. 162, says ol Cicero’s usage: “is enirn semper in eventu
imperate actionis significando imperativo futurum sine conjunctione
snbjicit3 interioris neatis scriptores et interpomnni’ e. g. Recognosce et
intelliges. SenecaEpibss. Recordare....intelliges. Cic. p.
Suria 5.

21. Dico. Notice ibe skill which is displayed in this passage.
Cicero first states the fact clearly and briefiy. He notices the effect
ou Gatiline, aud calls upon him to answer. Catiline is silent The
orator then clainn his silence as confirmation os his statement, and
proceeds with a more sun and emphatic exposition. Dico commences

 

