SEOONI) ORATION AGAINST cantune.

generally received—Gallicano legiones are, “ Roman legions εθῑνίηςὲῧ

in Gaurr’ Gallico legiones would be “legions consisting ol Gaulo?

Z. 25 .
se{3- In8 agro Plceno et Gallico. These countries were situated

on the Adriatic, and separated from each other by the river AEste.
The latter derived ite nanre srorn tlre Galli Senones who occupied it in

s.
willing- Metellus Celer, the pretor, was dispatched hy the senate

into the Picenian territory, to raise an army proportioned to the erner-
gency and danger. Agrum Camertem, Picenum, Gallicum maxime
quusi morbus qnidam illins suroris pervaserat. Pro Sulla, 19, ⁵3.
Cf. San Cot. 30,

25. Magno operes So more correctly written for magnopere.-
Ea senibus desperatis. The veterans who had served under Sulla
aremeant. Cf. ch. 9, 203 and Sall. ln-Ee ogreeti luxurio = ex
agrestibus luxuriosis, the abstract sor the concrete.

26. Decoctoribns. Decoquere and decoctor are not used ot ev·
erp honhampt, but of one who arranges matters rulth his creditore by
an ossignmeni ol his goods (cessio bonorum); without a public conr·
pulsory venditio bonorum the decoctor did not lose his civil rights
K-Vnnimonia. When the prretor had granted an action, the plain-
tiff required the defendant to give security lor his appearance before
the pretor on a day named. The defendant, on finding a surety, was
said vadimonium promittere or secere. If the defendant appeared an
the day appointed, he was said vadimonium sistere ; if he did not ap-
pear, he was said vadimonium deseruisse, and the praetor geue to the
plaintiffthe donorum possessio. seo Dict. Antip, Acrrc.

28. Edictum praetoris· In which the praetor’s judgnrent against
debtors is announced.

29. Quos vineo volitare. Verbs which denote to sce and hear
can taho the infinitivo ora participle. Z. 636. cte prefers the in-
finitivo, unless a picture is to be presented, later writers, as Tacitus,
the ,participle-Volnera. With this word is associated the notian of
impudence and presunrption-insolent assurance.

31· nrtent unguentis, Pomatnms and persumes were then the
fashion with suclr characters. cf. ch. 10: peno capillo, nitidi—Ful-
genl purpura. Thesenators and equites who had joined the conspi-
racy are here meant The dress of the former was distinguished by a
broad, ot the latter by a narrow stripe of purple in sront os the breast.
See Dior. Antia, Cervus Larus.

32. Suos milites = as his soldiers.

34. Qui exercitum deseruerunt. Pro Moren. 37, 79: Quare
o me, qnid ego Catilinam metuam. Nihil ,¹ et curaui, me quis nictu·
eret,· sed copies illins, quartuordecim esse metuendam nec tom
timendus est nunc exercitos L. Catilinae, qoem ini, qui illum exer·

 

