panacen. ’1

They were there credited, in many cases hy initials, to Orelli,
Klotz, Bloch, llatthiae, and Stiirenbmg, with the remark, that
those without an initial letter appended are generally from
Matthiae. lt would have been agreeable to the editor’s views
and feelings to give credit in connection with each note to the
source or sources from which it was taken, bnt this was incon-
venient, and seemed hardly necessary in aworlr of this kind.
It is his pleasure however here, as well as his duty, fully and
distinctly to acknowledge and specify the authorities which he
has so freely and as he hopes profitably used in compiling the
notes to this edition.

Or editions by English or American scholars, besides those
already mentioned, the editor has had before him Valpy's aud
M’Kay's; from the latter of which he has taken many notes,
especially on the later orations. But, as already remarlred,
German soholars have finnished him the most abundant aid ;
and besides the editions of Mobius and Orusius, Matthiae,
Supte, SchultZ, Steinmeta Klota, Madvig, Orelli, which con-
tain all or nearly all the orations given in this volume, the
editor has made nse of several special editions ol most of the
orations selected. They are, for the orations against Catiline,
Benecke’s, Holzapfel’S, and Morgenstern’s, from the first men-
tioned of which he has derived much assistance. On the ora-
tion sor the Manilian law, he has been largely indebted also
to Beneolre's separate edition of this oration. The recent edi-
tion ol the same oration by Halm was not received till after
the notes to this oration had been stereotyped; and while the
editor regrets that he could not maire use of Halm's labors,
he has been gratified to find that the uses made by him of his
resources in so many instances correspond with the results
arrived at hythe German editor. As neither the revision of
Orelli nor the edition of Madvig contained the oration lor Mar-
cellus, the text of Klotz was chosen, and the special edition of
Wolf, with the essays of Hug and J acob on the genuineness of
this oration, oonsulted. Again, Benecke's edition of the three

 

