THIRD ORATlON AGAINST CATILINE.

ANALYSIS.

1. In the introduction Cicero announces to the people that the state is saved
and thus prepares the way for n recitul of the course of events. (Ch. l. p ³.)
2⁴ The orator narrares the means and precautions by which the conspiracy
vrasdiscovered, and how the consprirutors were convicted by the testimony
of Vulturcius and the Allobroges and by their own letters and confessione:
for which. he adds. it was decreed oy the senate, whose decree is recited,
at the close of the examination of the conspiratorsy with honorable mention
of his colleugue Antonius and of the praefers, that a thanhsgiving to the gods
Ι should be appointed in the name of Cicero. (Ch. 2, p leh, ὑ, p 15.)

3. lle shewed that it was priucipally owing to the manifest favor of the im·
morial gods [hut this conspiracy vvns discovered, they having by the clearest
signs indicated the danger which threatened the republic. (Ch. 7, p lfi-ch.
aqud.)

4. lle in conclusion exhorls tho people to celebrate the festival which is to he
instituted in honor of the gods, and comnenus himself to the protectiou and
grateful remembrnnce of his fellowcnizens, promising to labor, even after
the terminatiou of his consulship, for the welfare of the state. (Ch. 9, p 22
end.)

{g Cu. 1.-o. Bona fortunas. These nearly syuouymous words aro

frequently found together. Cf. Rosa. Aur. 49, lul ; Cae. 13, 38; and
Verr. 2, 1, 44: Quibuscum nini barra nostra partimur, iis prator ad-
imere, nobis runrtuis, bona fortunasque poterit? on which Pseudo-
Asccuius remarks: Boua in ipsis possessionibus, sortunae iu fructibus
earum-Observa the asyndeton (Ζ, 825) iu some of the clauses of this
period, and the variation iu the use of tho conjunctione, et, atque, que.
Z. 333.

3. Domicilium . . . . imperii. See ch. ll, 26: imperii domici·
lium sedemque; aud Nep¹ Art. 3, 3: darnicifium ordis terrorum . . . .
imperii.

4. Hodierno die. This oration was delivered on the ed of De-

cemher.
ll· Et, si idem fere siguificat ae quod si.

11. Profecto. Z. 266, Note u-Jllum qui tanc urbem condidit
. . . . is, qui candem hanc urbem conditam amplificatamque servavit.
On such circumlocutione, see Z. 714, 3. ln this instance, however,
the form appears to be determined hy consideratione connected with
the perindie structure (Z. 810) and rhythm of the sentence Seyffert,
Pal. Gic. p. 10.

12. Famaque. De Nat. Deor. 2, 24: Suscepit cutem vita Iro·
minum consuetudoque carnmunis, ut beno‘iciis excellentes uiros in εω-

 

