1:filcide respecting tho copul or civil conditiones a citizen. cf. p. Rabir.

4, 12. The argument ol Cicero here is, that if tha proposer ol the
Semproninn law hlmsell, since he was an encmy‘os the state, ivus put
to death with the approval ol the people, then can these criminals olea
boexecuted.

30. Jussn populi. “Causae serviens hoc dicit3 nequo enim po-
puli jussu interfectus est Gracclrns.” lllnret. The senate had given
Opimius unlimited power to taho all necessary mensures sor the preser-
vation ol the state, without consulting the people; i. e. hy the well-
known formula: darent operatu Consules, ne qaid rcs publica detri-
menti caperet. Cf. Sall. 29. Madvig. injussu populi, Buherii et
Ernestii conj, quarn forsitan aliquis firmet ex Scholiasta, p. 412, Ed.
mem: “Lege Sevnpronia injussu populi oron licebat quari de eapite
conmmanit Orelli.

31. Largitorem. . . . et prodigum. Largitor is ane who gives
from seli-interested matives, generally sor political ends; prodigus ap-
plies to one who seeks gratification and admiration sr m his profusion.
Cic. Off. 2, 16: omnino dno sarit garrera largoruru; quorum alteri
prodigi, alteri liberales. Prodigi‚ gui epulis et viscerationibus et
gladiatorum marteribus, ludorum venationumque apparatu pecunias
profundunt iri eas res, quarum rueruorianv aut brevoin aot nullom
ornnino sint relicturi. hl. Klotz and hladvig read Ideni ipsura Lea-
tulum, largitorem et prodigum.

32. Pernicie exitio. Pernicies has an active meaning,
and denotas the destruction ol a living being by murder 3 esitium has
apassive meaning, and denotes the destruction even of lileless ohjccts
byaunihilation. Ded.

37. In pernicie. Cl. iu oestro timore, p. 38, line 18. Doring
explains it as = iu re popolo Rara. peruiciosa. Benecke reads in
perniciem.

Cn. VL-41. Dederitis· This is not sor dabitis, but (as Matthiae
observes) the Romans used two soture perfeeto in this ivay, when tha
second action was aot merely consequent upon the first (sa as theuto
begin to take place), but both were corupleted together. Cf. qui Aa·
ionium oppresserit, is boa bellom, teterrimum periculosissimamque
confecerit, Fam. 10, 13. Sco Z. 511.

44. Exsolvetis. Madvig reads popolus Romanus exsolvet. The
common text is o crodel. oitop. defendetis.

42 l. Obtineh0=probaho,docebo—Quamquamiscorreetive. cf.
ICat. 9, 22.

4. ria mini . . . . liceat, ut, dac. A well-known form of asseve-
ration by what a person holds dcarest3 ito inibi deos ornnes propitios
esse aelim, ut . . . . nequaqnam tontum capio voluptatis, &a Verr.
5, 14, 37. Ita or sie precedes with the subjunctive, and that which is
affirmed, follows with ut, commonly with the indicative.

 

