cnumcri aen u. saurus nino. 443

cere oo confossione sine in, ut id iudicaret, quo efficeretur, ut Ιιοηοτεεῖῗᾲ

assequeretur amplissimos. See note ou p. 25, line 5.

36. Si factum. That Milo slew Clodius, not iu sets-deterreo, but
in your defence. He reasons on this suppositiou all through to nitere-
turbelow

³8. Sed tamen si· seenoreonpaepinee. Quamquam uemo
esso potest cui salus sua nou probetur, si torceii, &c.-lrwes . . . gro-
tor cecidisset Harl proved displeasiug.

39. cederet ex. Ch. 25 fiu. without the proposition.

41. Propter quem. See noto οη page 123, lina lll⁴ Ζ. 452.-
Quomqoam, is corrective. He had supposed (what was hardly possi·
ble) that had he siaiu Clodius in its desence, bis country would not
thank him for so doing3 he would therefore abendon so nngrateful a
country—yes, uugrateful, to make the author of their joy the only oue
sorrowful, aud yet (quonzqcom, dac.) this is what we patriots all cx-
pect, danger and odium; without which where iu fact vivould be our
meritl Wherefore if Annius had slain a tyraut, he would have frank-
ly coufessed it; rejoiced, if his country approved3 if not, rejoiced at
the consciousness of having done his duty. Sed-But unhappily for
bis fame, he did uot. The fortune of Rome aud the gods claim all
the merit They had lorig borne with bis enormities, to which Milo,
ch. 32, was the ouly impediment. They therefore inspired him with
the idea of attacking Milo iu the very place where he had most out-
raged the laws. Ch33. He didso and fell. And this leads to the
peroratiou.

l. Quae mihi ipsi tribuenda laus esset, , , . si . .. arbitrarer‚l
narn nulla mihi tribuenda laus erat, si arbitrabar. Nos diceremus:
tribuendo fuisset, si arbitratus essem. Z. 525.—-Towtrtm. The sup·
pressiou of Catiliue’s conspiracy¹

4. aure mulier, dac. Klotz: Qec mulierinterjicere sceleratam
.... civem oon aedera?

11. Ahala . . . Nasica. . . opimius . . . Marius. See notes on
p. 9, lines 20 aud 243 p. 10, liues3 aud 9.

13. couscientia sua niteretur. Z. 452.

14. Sed. But so far from lllilo having any claim, the fortune,
&c- Cicero, hy makiugthe death of Clodius a matter of religious cou-

“ cern, in which the gods participated, reuders lllilo uo trifliug service
towards gaiuiug the favor of the people. Compare a similar passage,
ern Cot. 9.

16. Nullam vim esse ducit uumenve dIvInum, &c This
beautiful passage isone, from which, with others scattered through his
cuttings, we leam Cicero’s views respecting the existence of a deity,
aud the grounds of his belief. Cf. ile Not, Deor. 1,9; Taso. 1, 13.
For the positione of the adjective when commento two substautias,
see P. C. p. 236, ts.

 

