onumen uon o, arcemus. 301

14. Paruit· Nam cedere voluntatis est, parere observantia-¹³8³&

Quorum erut unu cauea. Who agreed with him in political eenti-
ments.

15. J am occupatam, sc. by Vanis. Caes B. Ο. l, 31.

16. Nam, si crimen est ullum voluisse, dec. This passage is
variously read and explained. Semo give: auin, ei crimen eet prelii-
here illum voluisse. But inest reject prohibere, which is found iu only
a few MSS. of an inferior class. Steinmetz, Klotz, and Soldan there-
fore with the most and best MSS. read: ei crimen eet illum voluisse,
and this seems to be the preferable text. The meaning of the passage
as given in our text is thus stated by Wernsdors: Si velle (crimen
committere) crimen est, vos non minus magnum crimen commisistis,
qui Africam.. . . obtinere voluistis, quam—alius quis (v. g. Ligarius),
qui earn obtinere maluit. Madvig points si crimen eet 0110700010-
iere.- Benecke, ei crimen est, ullum uoluisse. In the other reading,
illum is to be referred to Ligurine, who has just been named, and eli·
quem to Varus, not to Ligarius, as is commonly done. What is said
therefore in the protasis, ci the general wish of Ligarius to commit
some crime, is fitly applied to the opposite wishes of the tivo opposing
parties as it were to get possession of Africa, which are compared in
the apodosis. If Ligarius's simple wish to do something is considered
a crime iu itself, then no one else, who, like Varus, chose te get pos-
session of Africa, rather thau yon, committed a greater crime thau
you, who wished, though with less vehemence, to get that province.
For the question is net os the strength of the desire. If the wish of
that one (Ligarius) is in itself a crime, then the circumstance, that
you wished to hold Africa, that stronghold of all the provinces, by
nature fitted to carry on war against this city, is just as great a crime,
as if some one wished for himself still more strongly the same posses-
sion.

18. Arcem, &c As possessing the greatest tesaurus-Natam
ud bellum . . ..gerendum As shown in the Punic wars.

20. Atque is tamen aliquis. And yet lhat “aliquis'' was not
Ligarius. Cf. p. Deiot. 13, 35: ie utitem aliquid est.

21. Imperium se hahere dicebat. It was a usurped command.
Cf. §32 Ille (Varus) imperium arripuit, ei illud imperium esee po-
tuit.

22. Quoquo modo sc illud hauet. However that may be. Z.
521, Note. Al. illud se hebet, The eommon text gives eece.

24. Traditurifuistis. P. Ο. eti, in fin, Ζ. 498. Benecke,
Klotz, and Soldan: fecissetis, Z. 519, rr. The argument assumes a
disjunctive form: Yeu must, if admitted inte the province, have held
it either for Cissar or Pompey. If you say for Caesar, even Caesar
will not approve of such treachery3 and indeed the suppositionis
monstrous. You must then heve held it for Pompey; aud that this

26

 

