122slowness of his retnm, so here it is suggested thet the turning asido*

to Pornpey's villa could not have been to see Pompey or his country-
seat,

11. In Alsiensi, sc. villa. Alsium, now the village of Palo, was
an old Etrurian town, on the sea-coast near Caere, northwest irem
Rome, while the Appian vray lay to the sontheast. Fronto, de seriis
Alsieuaidas, calls it nruritintns et voluptarios toras. The Romans
went there, ot bene haberent genio, ot facerent antino voluptatem,
and the richer had villas there. Ad Fam. 9, 6, 1; Plin. Epp. 6, 16;
Val. lllax. 8, 1.

12. Millies. ΖΔ eea-Quia ergo erot? inore, &e Klotz reads
Quid ergo erot mores et tergiversationis? to which duro hie, acc,
forms the answer. His enemies inventedu similar charge against
illito.

13. Dum . . . . veniret. Z. 575.

Cn. >ixl-14. Age....c0n1parate. Others agite. Scilicet
ante Vallem non defuerunt, qui nge putarent curn plurali nou posse
conjungi. Horum jamdiu explosa sententia est. See note ou p. 57,
line as—Expeotn, haud impediti, parati ad cadem faciendam, oon-
trasted with irnpsdtmenn'm which is derived from tho sams root.

15. Cum uxore, Fulvia, who afterwards married Antony 3 supply
iter faciebat. ¹

17· Graeculi. Used by way of contempt. Juv. Sat. 3, 76,
They were perhaps professore of music and the fine arts3 perhaps,
worse-ln costra Etrusco. Asconius makes Cicero here hint that
Clodios was privy to the conspiracy of Catilius, whose army was en-
campeduuder Mallius in Etruria. Cicero nowhere directly charges
Clodius with participation in the Catilinarian conspiracy, but he is fond
ef speaking ambiguously about it, ch. 14, 37. Clodius had possessione
in Etruriamn, as srorn a rabber-fortress (costra Etrusco) in which
he intrenched himself, he made war upon and plundered Etruria, oh.
27, 743 9, 26. Iu the present passage Cicero does not speak of one
jonrney of Clodius to Catiline in Etruria (quum c. ind. imperf.); did
henot, however, choose the expression castro Etrusco, to lead the
thoughts of his hearers to Catilinc, and the Mallian carops· in Etru·
rial cl note on p. 114, line 6. According to Plnt. Cic. 29, Clodius,
at the time of Catiline’s conspiracy, had attached himself to Cicero, to
defend hini, for they were not yet enemies3 bnt afterwards Clodius
was to Cicero a second Catilina, ch, 14, 37, eico illo, &oq and the
ultor Catilinae (in Pison. 10, 233 7, 16), since he made Cicero's pro-
eeedings against the Catilinarians the ground of driving hirn into exile.
The remnants of Catiline’s adherente were in Clodius¹s hands. Pi-
eon. 5, 113 7,16. Clodius as Asconius speaks of his intention only
ae a repert, may have given up his plan of following Catilius, as not
holding out any advantages, and, to clear himself more certainly from

 

