onacron rou r. numus nuno. 447

which he, hy vote of the senate and with the concurrence of all the sifi

orders, had as consul carried into execution-Me putria expulerat· ⁴
ch. 14, 35,-Bona diripuerat. sest. 24, 54. The uque cl ignia in-
terdictio, as also voluntary exile to escape a sentence or a capital
punishment, was attended hy the confiscation of the property of the
proscribed or exiled, which uvas sold by the quaestor as a whole in the
namo of the stato to the highest bidder. The purchaser took it with
the indebtcdncss upon it, so that if the delate were great, but a small
snm came into the reusam-Domum . . . . vexerat Sect. 69, 145:
eversu aloinus est, fortune aeaeae, dissipati liberi, ruptulo conjux,
doc. See Introduction, p. 375.

29. Cn. Pompeio . . . . bellum indixerat. See eh. 7, 18.

30. Magistratum....caerles effecerat. The slaves os Clo-
dius attached the tribunes Sestius, Fabricius, aud Cispius, and much
bloodshed was cansed3 but they escaped. See Saea. chaps. 35
andSli.

31. Domum . . . . fratris incenderat. Not at the same time
with Cicero’s Palatine house, but in the following year, a u. e. 691.
See cd Au. 4, 3, 2. Introduction, p. 376.

32. Vastarat Etruriam. See ch. 9, 25 3 21, 55 ; 27, rt.

34. recidebantur, &c This being due only to laws actually
tantiae, was a prool os the insolence os Clodius His laws were en·
graved on brass before ho served on the magistracy in which he was
to bring them forward!

35. Quae uos servis nostris addicerent. See note on p. 116,
line li. From the time of the well-known censor Appius Claudius,
Α. u. c. 442, frequent attempts were made to give to the libertini tho right
ol voting in all the tribes, and this was a principal means in the hands
of the populures oi gaining lavor and tollewers srom among this class.
See note on p. 113, line 42. Counter attempta were as frequently
nrade to cerrfine the veting ot the libertini again to thesaur city tribes
When thus confined, they, though very numerous could exercise no
decisive control over the eleeti011s3 but ii perinltted, as was the de-
sign of Clodius's law, to vote in all the tribes, they would have the
control ς and the language ol Cicero is not perhaps very extravagant.
Cicero here calls the libertini serui, iu thesarne spirit in which he culis,
p. Rosa. Ain. 48, 140, Chrysogonus a seruus nequissimus. Sohe often
designatas the Clodian ruebas seruorum iudeus, or the like. Compare
Tac. Germ. 25, where he says oi the Germans: liberti uon inultum
supra scruas sunt.

36. Hoc aurio. The year ei his praetorship.

38. Illum ipsum. Ponrpey, to whom he had become reconciled.
See ch. 8, 21. Klotz: obstare poterut.

39. Caesaris potentiam. Caesar ivas now pnrsning his victeries
in Gaul, leaving Pompey to conduct the horne department Crassus

 

