rmsr onnrrou serrum commun. 169
authoritativo and steady hand,¹’ and in this sense the proposition ispigp⁸
necessaryssRagio = tyrennicolly.

35. Reprimi . . . . comprimi. Z. 822.

38. Ejeoerit. The city where their plane have been discovered
is tho wrock ol their hopes, and thoy must leave it or sink in ruin.
The eamp of Mallius is the friendly coast to which Cotiline must fleo
with those who are wreclred with him in tho discovery ol the conspi-
racy. Benecke; who does not understand by naufragos, patrimonio
naufragos, but those whose hopes have been disappointed,

39. naufragos, Cs. Cot. 2, 11‚24; and pro Soll. 14, 41, po-
vtriorooio ozoufrogoe.

Cri. xtlL-oa. Jamdiu. The whole three years srom tho coa-
sulate of Lepidus aud Tullus.

44. Nescio quo pacto. Beier (Cic. Off. 1, 41, 146) rightly in-
forms us that this phrase, like nescio quomodo, is osten used with ref-
erence to things which one would oist todoat been dooe- What
meod should sollowl Z. 553.

3. Ex tauto latrocinio = ez tonte numero latronum. 18

5. Residebit· The metaphor is taken lrorn o subtle poison in tho
system. The state io the body, the conspiracy the sever, and tho ex·
ocution of Catiliue the draught ol coel water which refreshes fora
moment-Io eoois etque in visceribus. Deos etque introduce a
etroogor, oestro, or eqool terrnl P. 0. 4, d3 Z. 333. Observe tho
repetitIon of the proposition io. The repetition ol the proposition keeps
the terms distinct ; its omission heloro the second term combineo them
as being little moro than one compleo oetion. But io practice the
prepositiou is often found repeated, even where the notione are cognate.
Zumpt (ad Div. in Coecil. 13) says: “ vetos illo [regulo] repeti pree-
poeitioneot obi diversitos oerdorom eit, folso est, si lroc debet con-
sequi, oron repeti, obi nollo opporeot diversum Tho proposition is
always repeated with et . . . . et (but sometimes eom precedes both
the et’s ,· com et nocturno et diurno meto) ; nec . . . . nec; generally
with out .. . . oot; vel . . . oel,· after oisi; and atter quom following
a comparative: e. g. et in hello et in poco ,¹ in nollo olio re nini io
virtute ; io nollo re melios qoam io virtute. See Z. 745.

6. AEgri morbo gravi· Z. 452.—Orr the structure of this period,
seo Z. 816.

’l- Biberinl· Madvig, from conjecture, reads biberent.

12. quuod. See P. (236³. ,

14. Praetoris urbani. L. Valerius Flaccus, whose tribunal they
hemmed amend, thot they might intimidoto him when delivering
judgmeut in cases ef debt

15. Mallwlos. The term malleolos denoted a hammer, the
transverse head oi which was formed tor holding pitch aud tow 3 thch,
having been set ou fire, was projected slowly, so that it might not be

15

 

