304 nouus.

Pa

Spapmdieute is common to both clauses, as it usually is, it must be repeat·

ed iu the second clause. Ζ. 781.

27. Cum injuram Benecke and Soldan reject the proposition.
Z. 4l2. Without the proposition, the cause or ground of the action ie
given3 with the proposition, a new circumstance is added. To ex·
press therefore that the wrong eonsists iu the rejection, the proposition
should be omitted. Cum injurie implies that to the rejection another
wrong is added. Cl. eum crudelitate rejectus, §2b'; aad prohibiti
sarnum euru injuria, b 24.

28. Quum ista ηε, &a Quum Pompeius iste iujuriavobis illata
vestrisque querelis commotus uon esset, ut signum daret alienare a

Ligario voluntatis.
29. Credo. Z. 777.

30. Iu praesidils eratis. You, astho senators, magistrates, aud
men of rank, wlre followed Pompey into Greeee for whatever reason,
were iu the camp, without however making part ol his fighting arnry.
—Animzss Referring to both the Tuberos. Z. 92.

31. An, ut fit, &e The general purport os this passage appears

to be to press tho zeal which Tubero shewed for victory, aad, supply-
ing the ellipsis, the sense may be thus given: Or, was not that, which
is usually the ease in civil iners, with you still more the case thau with
the restl viz. that you ardently desired to conquer. The ³ Η indi-
cate a lacuna. Exciderunt, quae proprie de Tuberonum studio dicta
eraut⁴ Madvig.

33. Pacis equidem semper auctor sui. Gl. Deiot. 10, 29;
Atr.7‚14;9,11;ulare.5‚14;Plil.2,10,243eruamus-Sed
tum sero, sc. after his return from Cilicia Ab Fam. 4, 1.

34. Pacem cogitare. Matthiae distinguishes between pacem and
de paca cogitare. The accusative deuotes the thing which one wishes
to effect3 the preposition with the ablativo only the subject of the re·
fleetiou. r
36. Qui....venisses. Z. 554. Benecke, Klotz, Soldon, and
Madvig: venerae-Emi pereundum, uisi vicisses. Z. 519, a.

37. Se res naret, aud rer ee behel, are both found in Cicero.
Zumpt, Verr. 5, 34, 89, thinks the latter the regular order; Madvig,
de Fla. p. 57, thinks the former is more frequent.

38. Hane salutern, a Caesare victore acceptam—Illi uictoria,
de cujus erudelitate timebamus.

Cau-40. Beneficii sui· Erga vos quorum constantiam (lu
Pompeiana causa) nou ignorabat. Auget Gasarls clementiam, et
simul Tuberones carpit, quum eos non paenitere constantiae suae
dicit

41. Vestras iniurias, Z. aea-Ru publico. Ejus, quae nuno
est, et Caesarie consilio ac sapientia gubernatur.

43. (aui . . .. puteus. Iu supposing. Z. 555.

 

