NOTES.

7 covered by Mai informs ns that the proetor hore meant was Q. Cicero,
the brother os the orator. Tho addition populi Rotnani to the title
pretor is generally rrrrnecessury, out here it is emmanuel-Rectissi-
irtiim uirum = ‘¹ virum, qui nee ipso discedit unquam de oa via, qrram
mores nc loges proscribunt, nec focile potitur alios tole quicquam com·
mittero.” S. cf. nuris L. Cesorfirirrus eet et rectem· Ferri. 12, 5,
2. Its meaning is correct, consistent. Madvig and Nnuch2leetisei-
inum.

26. J udices. Ever since the lex Aurelia os the year n. u. c. 684,
the judices consisted of senators, equites, and tribuni {erarii (plebeians).

98 l. Hoc uti genere dicendi, quod . . . abhorreat. Hic here ε
“ α” = “ sect a.'’ Hic qui is used sor is qui, when tho thing spoken
of is present. Here it is the style he is tiozo going to adopt—Non
niodo . . , , oerum etiam. Verum (sor sed) etiem is nearly pecnlior to
Cicero3 not being found in Caeser, Corn. Nepos, Livy, or Tacitus ; nor
in the Auctor od Herennium. It is found now and then in letters os
Cicero’s correspondents, and twice in Sallust⁴ Stiirenburg3 whose
calculation of the comparative srequency os sed etiam and verum
eiiam is as follows: Alter iion inodo, Sic-,-

In the Oret. pinchin, red etiarn occurs 2, eernmetimml

ii u Balbo, ιι ιι fi, ιι ιι (J
ιι ιι Plana, ιι ιι 10, ιι ιι l
ιι ιι sest.) ιι ιι 15¹ ιι ιι 1
ιι ιι Lsssffltt'h, ι ιι 12, ιι ιι 0
ιι Brul„ ιι ιι 21, ιι ιι 2

To whiehHaaseadds p. Sullv ‘⁶ “ 15, “ “ 5
So that ced etiem is the more common form ς at least in Cicero's
Orations.

2· nsorensi sermone abhorreat. It being unusual in judieial
transactions and speeches to treat of literature aud art.

3. Quaeso a vobiS, &c Weiske and llatihiae criticiso §3⁵ be-
cause the protasis and apodosis melre the same statement3 e. g. Sed
ize ciri inirem videatur, irre oti loc genere dicendi, queso o nohis, nr
iiie potiemini uti novo genere dicendi,· end because many unneoes-
sary repetitions are introduced.

t. Hoc denique pretore. The brother of the orator, himself an
epic and tragIc poet. Cf. od Q. Fret. 3, 6, 9.

9. Liberius. Schritter maintains that litere loqui = (necessari-
ly), ‘¹ sine metu offensae eut periculi loqui ς’) hut Cicero uses it cise— ,
where in the sense of ot tengrit, copiously, sully, dec. Quesnse olim
disputabuntur oc libere, opposed to articulatim distincteque diei.
Legg. 1, 13, 36: ne ornatius quidem eut liberius oensem dicisum
quern, &c De Oret. l, 53, 229. s.—Ii ejnsrnodipersoiio, pue
...est “Inthecaseossuchaperson‚''sc.osArclrias is. Other-
wise‘persono is the mesk worn by an actor, or the part which he per-

 

