onrirrou ron uiuo nnrorunus. 319.

their opposition to Coesar, betrayed motivas quite distinet horn love mg?

country. Cms. B. G. l, 4.

39. Sc tenuit, retinuit, quo minus ad hcllum proficisceretur

40. Ignosce. Pardon tho man eo circumstauccd in regard to
Pompey, who, from his high command in the republic, and his inter-
course with Deiotarus in the Mithridatio urar, hod naturally greut in-
flucnee over him. The second excuse.

112. Ad quem quum . . ..congessissent- On quum and the
subjunctive, see note on p. 85, line l. In quern is the common read-
iugq and congerere oonuie oruumeute iu aliquem is a more common
construction thou aaa. ed aliquem. The former: to confer on
oue or irnpurt to one all honors and distinctions3 tho latter = omnia
congerere ud aliquem ornandum, to make every thing contribute tothe
honor oi some ene. By ad the directiou towards an object is denoted,
by iu tho object itsett.

43. Tu ipso. Caesar and Pompcy, united hythe affection and
prudence of Julia, and acting in the true spirit of their triumvirute,
readily votcd each other the highest effices und honors3 hut Julia may
he also meant.

44. si . . . . idcirce. Sec note on p. 26, line t-Tuae rcegeetoe.
See note on p. 36, line 31.

3. Honores populi Romani, apopulo Romano in Pompeiumgg
collati.

4. Quariti senatus. What ellipsis is there here; and what de
we iu English supply? Ζ, 767.

5. Tanto ...ouante Benecke, Klotz, and Soldan, from the
Eri. and other MSS, read quante . . . . tanto, Verum qni sic loquitur,
is, quanta caesaus gloria sit, ostendit Pompeii cornparatione3 Cicero,
Deiotari excusandi causo, quanta Pompeii gloria suerit, commemorat ς
itaque onmia breviter comprehendens tantanr ait fuisse Pompeii gloriae
preter ceteros praestantiam, quanta nnnc Caesaris sit. Madvig.

t. Tuos enumcrare uon possumus· Compare p. illorcel. 2

Cn. V.-o. Ad enm igitur. Igitur resumes the thread oi the
narrative, which had been interrupted by p 12. Ζ. ῖ39. The third
excuse is drawn from antecedent circumstances He had heen the
old ully, host, and friend ol Pompey.

10. Justis hostilibusque bellis. Bellum justum is one com-
menoed and carried on in accordance with the usual formalities. Cf.
de Off 1, 11, ³6. Bello hostilia aro wars waged with a foreign foe,
in opposition to tetta ciuilia. For hostis was anciently = peregrinus.
The assistance here alludod to was afforded in the Mithridatio war,
which Pompey terminated.

ll· Quocum. Cicero usually uses quocum, and (rarely) cum
quo, to refer to adefinite parson, aud quicum when the referenceis
indefinite or general.

 

