enarrer roa r. curros irruo. 437

priest onybele al Pessinos, and received the title of king. Sesl. 2613?

sqq.; de Harusp. resp. 13. On the motiones Clodius. when tribune
of tho people, a decree ll'as passed, by which M. Ceto was sent with
the powers ol praetor to take possession of the island os Cyprus, with
the treasures of its king, Ptolemy, and reduce the island to the form
os a province—Orbem terrarum . . . . partitas cel. In return ior ser-
vices which the consuls Piso and Gabinius had rendered lo Clodius in
ins offense> destroy Cicero, he proposed a bill, by which they had the
provinces os Macedonia and Syria assigned to thern, with extraordi-
nary powers. Sesr.10,24;14,33;aasqq. By the lex Sempronia

ol'C. Gracchus, it was the duty cl the senate to determine the con·

sular provinces before the election os the consuls, so that the consuls

aster theIr consulship could draw lols, or agree in regard to those prov·

inees only which had been previously designated. Pro (lenio, 9, 24.

15. Civem. Pompcy. See ch. 7, 18 and 19.
lt· AEdem Nympharum. In this temple, as being most ee-
cure from fircs, were kept the public registers ol the consors. It rvas
hurued in the disturbarrces which preceded the erile ol Cicero, though
the motive here assigned nray have been unfounded. eat. 32, 783
Parae. 4, 23 serr. 39, 843 44, 953 Horasp. {ll-Memoriam pulli-
cem recensionis. Recensio = actus recensendi is not elsewhere found
in Cicero. Suetonius uses it, Ges. 41. Clodius could not obliterate the
- ignomiuy which was the result of the orriraorloersio (coeligetio, eota-
tio, trotio) censorio, though he might remove it from the public recol-
lection, by destroying the censors’ tablelS, where it was recorded. The
repetition ospnblicom iu publicis makes this notion emphatic.

19. our....erat. Who regarded, &o From Clodius's public
crimes the orator posses to his private lise. He tranrpled under loct
the laws.

20. Nulli possessionum termini. Possessio = heth the right
os possession, and, as here, actual possession. The slories respecting
the god Terminus show the feeling of the ancient Romans with re-
gard to the certainty aud sacrednese ol landmarks Α remarkable
passage is found in one ol the agrimensores: qui conligerit rnooeril-
que possessionem, promovendo suern, alterius rnirraendo, od lroc sce·
lus damnabitur c dtis. Si serni jociani, (lerninis enotabantur in
delerins; sed εἰ conscientie dornicico fiet, celerius derisus exstirpe-
bilnr gerensque ejas orieris interiet, erc—Ortonam liliam. Unjust
law-suhsy the twistiug orperversion of right iu litigation. Culum-
niu = trick, artifice, chicanery, and is opposed to veritas, fides,
aequites.

” 21. VindIciis ne sacrementis. The orator makes use here of
technical expressions belonging to thc Roman process, to bring ont
strongly the corrtrast between the judicial prosecution ol' unjust claime
lo others' possessione, and the open violence with which Clodius seiaed

en<

 

