3

Pu

l

90 riorus.

sfycnuse in the sonate, nnd thereloro that that body could never hano in· ἔ
tended to condemn lllilo by the decrec. Besides, that thc decroo was
expressed in the lorm usual in the caso ol public disturbunces, o. g. the
bnrning ol tho serrato-house, dec, nnd ivos noted by him, as no doubt
it uns by others too, as a condemnation os tho suot, without deciding
with whom the guill lay. This clears the second prejudiciarie-Cn:-
dorn, in qun, &c This expression is not simply = to the brieter serm

codem Clodii, bnt comprehends the whole condiet, in which Clodius “³ i

losthislise. Cf. 6, 15.
12. Contra rem publicam esse factam. This is a general

formula, to denote any nnng as dnngerons or advorso to tho state. lt m
occurs in the words of decrces, as cited by Cicero, od Q. sint. 2, 3, 3, ss

and nd Fnin. 8, 8, b.

lt. Quoties enim, dre. Below, ch. 35, he says: Cenicsinn lna
esi lice nli interita P. Clodii cl .. . . alteim a period which ndinit-
ted ol various discussions of the question in tho senate.

16, Frequentissimo senatu. In Cicero's time tho sonate prob-
ablynnmhered over5tlll. See nd An. l, 14.

lr. Summum. The common reading is nd snannnm, which is
uncieeroninn. See Z. nii.

18. nectamur, sc. how fnlly the senate approved ol lllilo's con-
duct. Dicin-are is ot'tcn put absolutely, without the addition ol the
prononn id or loc,—Hnjus nnilrnrti tribuni plebis. T. Munatius

Plancus Bursa, wlio, with another tribune, Q. Pompeius Rosos, ha· f.
rangued the rnob, which under their direction brought ont the body of f}
Clodius, and exposed it in the sorum belore the Rostra, that its wounds ,Γ

might be uiewed. ln their speeches they excited the populace against
bino, and, Sextus Clodius n scribe, acting as lenden, the people bore
the corpse into the ctli‘iil, where they made a pile os the benehes,
desis, tablcs, and boohs, on which they burncd the body, setting lire
to the curia, which was consnmed, together with a portion of the Ba-
silica Porcia, which was adjoining. Asconius snys the tribunes did
not cease haranguing, until the beatos the burning curia forced thorn 3³³¹
to retire: therefore the derisive epithet (truhemius, scorched, singed. ⁴

Ambustus however, oircnmnrtns, properly applies to one who has ῘῘζ

been struck by lightning, bnt not lrilled.

19. Intermortuae‚ is explained by most as = inanes, futiles, ineffi-
caces. It properly expresses the alternate sinhing and reviving of one
strnggling between life and death, and is applied with bitter sarcasm
to the harangues, which were, in the confusion of the scene, ineffect=
nal and fruitless attempts j st dying, and as it were already dead be-
fore they reached the hearers.

20. Invidiosa. Ferit was holding up Cicero to pnblie odium
to represent him astho tyraut of the senate—Quum diceret. The
general usage would lead us to expect the indicative here. See note

 

