onnrron rou r. snnrns urno. 445

ii the Alban land3 and it would appear that in the building of it hes}gu

had destroyed some old groves and altars attached to Mons Albanus,
where the Latinae feriae were celebrated. Mons Albanus was covered
with trees; bnt we may suppose that every little hillock and grove
was the site of an altar for these occasions.

41. Sacrorum populi Romani sociae et aequales. Liv. 1, 7,
says of Romulus: Sacro diis eliis Attalo ritu, Gracco Herculius
ab Evandro instituta erant, jacit. The worship of Vesta particularly
was derived from Atha. After the destructiones Alba, the joint wor·
ship continued, whence Cicero¹ making use of an expression of public
law, calls the Alban altars populi Romani coaice et (equales. As in a
surrender tho conquered people were obliged to make over to the
Romans divion ditonumque artenia, so the gods and sanctuaries were
included in the leagne. The common worship ol June Sospita in La·
nuvium aud Rome is well known. Liv. Β, 14, and above, ch, 10, 27.
The temples and altars ol' Alba had not been destroyed in the destrue·
tion of the city; Clodius destroyed them.

43. Substruetionum insanis molibus· See cb. 20, 53.

44. [Are] This word, if correct, is tho vocative, like obrute
firmatione. llladviguow rejects it entirely. Klotz retains it without
the brackets.

l. Tuque . . .. Latiaris sancte Juppiter. The form Latiaris, 131
not Latialis, is confirmed by Priscian, though MSS. consound them.
In the sacred grove, on the lofty Alban mount, sacrifice was per·
formed to Juppiter Latiaris, the guardian god of the old Latin league,
and afterwards also the highest national god of Latium.

2. Lacus. The beautiful Alban lake lay at the foot of the
mountain on the west-an oval sheet of water about six or seven miles
in circumference. The plural is not merely oratorical, as other wri-
ters also have Albani loeus,

5. Solutae sunt. Cicero shilfnlly makes the death of Clodius'a
propitiatory sacrifice. His crimes against the gods had long before
brought down upon him the sentence Socer esta, which it was every
one’s duty to execnte.

6. Nisi forte. Cicero thought it absurd to denya providential
interfereuce, in the fact of his death bappeniug iu the very presence
of the goddess whose rites he had profaned.

ἵ. sacrarium Bone Deae· The reucontre was near this chapel.

10. Acciperet. Steinmetz, Klotz, and Siiplle occeperit. In per-
fecto simplex inest facti notio: in imperfecto etiam necessitatis et oon-
silli divini, quasi dixisset3 ot euin oporteret vulnus accipere, itu vo·
lente nurnine Boua Dee. Uuless we wish to maintain that it was
mere chance, that he must receive that wound. See Z. 514.

ll· audicio illo nefario. Wherein he was tried l'or the viola-
tion of the mysteries. Ch. 5, 13. Cicero bere, as often iu his letters,

38

 

