crismon ron r. ANNIUS MILO. 385

1¹ae

body of the optimates. Thc caso is the ablativo construed 1111111οἔ8
inagis,

19. Iiaooriosus. This word, as also sollicitune and exercituin, is
used here in a passive sense. [iniuriosus = multis laboribus et {erum-

, nisaffectus.

20. Precmiorum. The offices of the state. The centrast he-
tween spe urnplissimeroin premiorum eird riveto crudelissimorum
suppliciorum, while it shows their disappointment, lays claim to a
higher degree of pity from the audience. Others read exitiorum in·
stead of suppliciorum.

23. Dumtaxat. See note on p, 85, line 8, Cicero expected Milo
to be tossed by the winds amidst tho billows ol popular assemblies, be-
cause he had merited the rcsentment of the mob 3 but he thought that
his troubles should eud there 3 arrd that his cnemies would bave no
hopes, deo—Fluctibus concionum. The same figure is frequent in the
Attio orators. Conciones were mostly called hythe tribunes of the
people. There was no voting in the concio, hut the suasio and dis-
suasio legis took place here, aud in the coinitiu the lec without further
discussion was accepted or rejected by votes. Quinctii 8, 5, 48, says that
tho words dunitocut fluctibus concionum give a mixed character to
the allegory in tbis passage, which were otherwise pure.

2¹2. Quia semper. So also Klotz, Others, qnod semper.

2i· Spem ullam esse babituros . ad salutem exstin-
guendam. See uoto on p. 48, line 9.

28.Noumod0...,sedetiam. “Idon’tsay...but,”or “not
...hutff’ See Z. 724, and note ou p. 64, line 36.

29. Tales vires. Tales oiri solemni quadam et honorifica ap-
pellatione Ciceroni iu orationibus judiciariis judices audiunt Tales
rarely follows its substantive—Quotnqemn, &c Cicero had alluded
to the public services of Milo, and expressed bis surprise at his enemies
hoping te foil him before judges, whose authority he had always sup·
ported3 lest, however, he might seem to rest his cause on this, or ad·
init the inference, that because Milo had saved the city, Milo might
therefore siey the citizens with impunity, he correots himself, and adds
thet he will not so apply Miles patriotic actions 3 at least before ho
shall have established the fact of Clodius being the aggressor. Com-
pare p. Plunc. 1, 3. ⁸

30. Τ. Amrii tribunatu. s. o. c. 691. 11111οέ services to the
state during his tribuuate reduced themselves mainly to bis merit in
effecting the recall of Cicero from bamshment. Cf. ch. 37, 102: pest
red. in senet. 8, 19, arrd 1230: Quibus cittene officiis T, Annii liene·
ficio remunerabor? cnjus cerinis ectio, ratio, cogitatio, totus denique
tribunatus niliil oliudjuit nisi constans, perpetuu, sortis, invicto de·
sensui solutis mee. Cicero, especially in the orations delivered efter
his return from exile, reminds us uot seldom of the expression of Leuis

33*

 

