THE ORATlON Fon KING DEIOTARUS.

-—-—

INTRODUCTION.

Daromnus was a noble tetrarch of Gallograecia or Galatia, who in the sev-
eral nram in which the Romans had been engaged in Asia, Pontus, Cappado-
cia, Cilicia, and Syria, had often ufforded powerful aid to their generals, and
proved himselfa zealous and faithful ally. Through Pompey, after the closo
of the Mithridatic war, he was, for his services, honored by the senate with
the title of king, and had Gadilonitis and Armenia Minor added to his domin-
ions. He succeeded, indeed, donbtless by Roman favor, in encroaching on
the rights of the other tetrarchs of Galatia, aud obtaining nearly the whole of -
it for himself.

In the civil war, Deiotarus attached himself to the cause of Pompey, his
benefactor, in the same ship with whom he etl'ected his escape after the battle
01 Pharsalia. After the defeat 01 Pornpey, he sought 111 every way to regain
the favor ol' Caesar, relying upon the friendly relations which had previously
existed between them. Accordingly, while Cesar 1100 employed in Egypt,
Deiotarus offered to Cn. Domitius Calvinus, Casar's legate inusta, his ser-
vices and money, and in his turn, 11110107, applied to Domitius 101 aid
against Pharnaces, the son of Mithridates, who had taken possession 01 his
kingdom 01 Armenia Minor, and of Cappadocia, the kingdom 0111110001-
zanes, and was plundering them. 1111110 campaign which followed, Phar-
naces defeated the combined Roman and Galatian forces near Nicopolis, and
almost entirely destroyed the army 01 Deiotarus. When Caesar, in the same
year, came into Asia from Egypt, Deiotarus, divested 01 his royal robes, wait-
ed on him in the garb of a suppliant, and in consideration of his 1010101001-
vices his age, dignity, and the prayers of his friends, received a pardon, and
was permitted 10 resume the ensigns 01 regal dignity. About certain claims,
however, which the neighhoring tetrarchs made on Gallograecia, Caesar de-
cided nothing; but taking with him all Deiotarus's cavalry, and a legion
trained in the Roman discipline, he proceeded against Phamaces, whose
speedy defeat is recorded in the memorable words, ‘⁵ Veni, vidi, vici.''

Caesar, after this victory, proceeding to Asia, by the route 01 Gallograecia
aud Bithynia, became the guest 01 Deiotarus. He took from 111111, however,
the tetrarchy of the 'l'rocmi and gave it to Mithridates of Pergamus, whom he
had made king of the Bosporus. The kingdom of Armenia Minor also, which
Pharnaces had nnested from Deiotarus, Cacsar did not restore to Deiotarus, but
bestowed it on Ariobarzanes, king 01 Cappadocia. Thus Deiotarus was left
with almost nothing more than his original tetrarchy. We leam from Cicero
(nd Aa. lt, l), that in the autumnos the same year, the cause of Deiotarus
was unsuocessfully pleaded by Brutus before Caesar at Nicaea in Bithynla;
but that Brutus interceded for Deiotarus in this matter is highly improbable,
and in what other relation he defended Deiotarus is equally uncertain. When
Caesar returned from Spain, k. u. 0. 709, Castor the grandson 01 Deiotarus, by
a daughter who was married to aramundarus, accused his grandfather 01 a

 

