260 sorus.

gs. . . . sed without tho ctiorn. Arnolrl (P. d. Part 2, 505) objectay that

tho second is nlrornss tho strengel· statoinont. Horo, though a iritu-

irus is in hinisell' less than nn impertitor or legulos, yot that a prov-
inco could not cnduro oven a tribuno, is u stronger assertion than that
it could not henr au irnperrrtor· or legatos.

37. Anhnos ac spiritns. Superbiaur ot quae indo oritur, lihidi-
nein atque avaritiarn. On tho plurol, soe Z. 92.

Cn. xxm-so. Qui so a pecuniis· Madvig adopts the con·
jecture ot' Benecke and ornits se Bonsclro retains it in [ ]

42. dlanns oeulos oninium cohihere. Cs. de Off. 1,40:At
eninr prrrtorcnr, Sophocle, ‹leert uon solunt onorius, sed etiarn oculos
abstinentes luthera.

Η. Ecquam. Z. 136, For even is a rich city were roally dis-
posed to pesco ovid tranquillity‚ sonis occasion was songlrt to charge
it with disobedienco and conturnacy, sor the purpose os plundering ite
riches.

65 <h Reqnisivit = desideravit-Videbat, sc. oro nno-irrora, i. o.
habitatores, incolre orae inaritnnae. Ζ, 675, Tho common reading is
l'idehnt enini populum Rorrrnnurn non locupletari. . . . . oeque nos,
&c The reading os the text is descrnlcd by Benecke, and given by
later editors, except that Madvig reads neque nos instead ol treptie eos.
It hest suits the connection, and is nearest to the MSS. The senso
is: For they (i. e. the inhabitants ol the coast) saw that tho praetors,
with the exception ol a serv, yearly ernichcd themselves srorn the up-
propriations ol' the public inoney. end that they in tho nonre of a fleet
attained nothing else, &c Froin this passage it appears that the
pretore, along the dlediterranean and particularly in Asia lllinor,
yearly received appropriatione stonr the public trcasrny, lor· the pur·
pose ol fitting out ships ς and that they enihezaled this money, and ap-
plied it to their own use. This neglect ol their noval l'orcc lel't thern
too werdt to resist the pirates, arrd sulijectcd thern to detesto, which
brought disgrace upon the Ronian niune.

6. classium nomine. Z. ora-Deoinenis accipiendis. The
difference in the use os the participle in dus arrd ol' the pers. pass. pur-
ticiple, though we nray osten render both hy a verhol nonu in ing,
should be attended to. It is the difference ol a cornpleted and past
action and one yet to be. Cornpore ortis coodeudce principiani pro-
jectam o Rornnlo, and institute rei publice elerum exordium. De
Rep. 2, Ξ. Also, superstitione tollendo religio oon tollitur. De Dio.
Ξ, 72. Sublato superstitione would represent this action os prior to
tlre other3 hut tollendo marlrs it os continuhrg at tlte semo time. So
in Cot. 2, 10, 21: ritule gesto negotio for gerendo, would rnodisy the
conception, though in itsels giving a just idea.

Β. sacraris, honr jorae, properly the throwiug of goods over·
board in a storm3 then any loss whatever 3 and hero, as a lrind of

 

