432 noras.

{³5⁰5 dictmeut, the charge of murderiug Clodius, that we sear, hut your sus-

picions, Pompey. The proucun turra is repeated with emphasis.

28. Exaudire. Fero semper carradire est ita audire, ut dicta
plane percipiantur, ubi nostrates fere intelligere dicare solent. Rarius
m hoc verbo simplicis verbi crrdz'oudr' ris ancta apparet. Exaudiuutur
igitur verba, quie clara voce ἓν ἐπηκόῳ dicuntur3 dicauturne ex longinquo
an ex propinquo nihil refort; nam otiam ex propinquitate ita dicae, ut
vix proximi le exaudiant. See note on psa, lina ll. Pompey was sit·
tiug in frent of the cerarium, at some distance from the rostrum.

29. Suspiciones. It appears from Asconius, that Pompey, being
interrogaled hythe Clodian leaders, as to whether his life had been
attempted by ultre, told the story of Licinius3 aud thatin addition to
the precautiou of confiuing himself to his gardens, on his return from
raising the feries through Italy, he had refused to adnrit the visit os
lllilo, and of none clse3 and that when the senate was held iu the
portico of Pompey, to allow of his taking part in the business, lllilo
uvas the only man ordered to be searched before he was allowed to
enter. '

31. Defectus. Klotz: dilectas here aud elsewhere.

32. Si capitolinae cohortes· For when danger threatened, or
there was sear of disturbances, guards were set on the Capitol aud
other hills of the city. Compare note on p. 9, line 4.

33. Excubiae . . . . vigiliae. Conjungunturhaec etiam,pro Plane.
42, et promiscue usurpantur, sic tamen, ut uigilia numquam de diurno
tantummodo tempore dicantur-Delector juventas. Juventutis no·
mine praeeipue equites designantur: hinc princepsjaventatis.

36. arogno certe in hoc vis, doc. The consequent member of
this hypothetical period seems to correspoud only with the latter clauses
of the conditional member, from ai Italia, &a These he answers by
showing their absurdity, os they would imply courage aud resources iu
Milo sar above those of any single man; and, with regard to the ex·
traordinary levies, by proving that they are called for hy the necessi-
ties of the state without auy reference to Milo. The auswer to the
first clauses of the conditional member is implied io the words: Quod
ai locus, «hc, as if he said-“ If yon seor Milo, ir is wholly owing to
rniooppreltensiw for if an opportunity had been afforded him, he
would hare proved to your satisfaction that no man was ever dearer to
another thau you lo him, &c- And if he had sailed iu his proci, (qma
cirron probaret) he would have gone into axile; not, neaera, with·
out calling you to testify his innocense, as he now does?

37. Non unius, sed multorum. So Hor. Germ. 4, 9, 39: Consul
oron onius anat-Indicumue See note on p. 124, liae 38. Klotz
gives judicaretur.

40. AEgras . . . . labantes, correspondiog respectively to sonoras
end confirmarer.

 

