ORATION FOR M. trancrtLLns. 273

24. Etiam mortuis :licet sint mortni. Z. eea-M. ilfareellopggg
conserente. By the restoration of Marcellus. Z. 637.

25. Ad paucos redactam· Cf. ud Fam. 4, 11, extr.

ct. Gratulatlorribus. Drys of rejoicing, festival days—Ante-
ponis. So Klotz and Siipfle, from Erfand3 Ozs. disemos the
common anteperire. The present suits the confidence of the presump-
tion. In the following passage, down to offeret lnudihur, Klotz de-
fends from MSS. his variatione from the common text, which differs
in several particulare. The chief difference is in ut nelle trepaeis, where
the usual reading ie ut tropaeis, omitting nullu. But Osiander thinks
the new reading harmonizes as little with the following, as the old did
with the preceding sentence. He therefore prefers, with Halm (Zeit-
schrift fiir Alterthnmswissenschaft, 1838, p. 167) the conjecture nt ei
ufic, and below, florerent, instead of either florescet or florescit. Fr,
Schneider <Jahrbiicher f. Phiiol. u. Pnedag. 521. Band, 1848, p. 5285)
rejects nulla, which Klotz received frorn Erf. and 8 Ozj. MSS, and
takes nihil to coleston as a parenthesis. He gives the connection in
thc thought as follows: “This act of thy magnanirnity is so great,
thot time brings an end to thy trophies: but thy justice and clemeucy
daily increase in farne ;” and remarks that it is not surprising in Ci-
cero, that a new sentence independent of ut should commence with ot.

30. Et dux et cornes- Compare p. Belo. 4, 9: qnnm etium iper
casus eventusque rerum non ducor, sed comites ejus (Pompeii) coa·
siliarum suerint.

33. conficiat et consumat. The former may refer to the'com-
rnencement, the latter to the end of the destruction.

34. Quotidie. The distinction between qnotidie and in dies,
which would lead uehere, because of the comparative magis, to ex·
pect the latter, is not always observed P. C. 59, t.

35. Quantum . . . . tantum. Ζ. ret.

38. Vereor nt, dcc. Cicero here purposely speaks not quito
plainly. He did notwish to give full utterance to his thoughts re·
specting the sentiments of the partisans of Pompey, as he had him-
self been an opponent of Caesar, and therefore pasees rapidly on.
Compare nd Fam. 4, 9, 23 An. 7, 3, 4. In the nent line Orelli gives
egoipse.

40. Victoriam vicisse videris, quum....remisisti. See
P. 0. 488, (c). Quum is used with two indicative verbs in the same
tense, to express identity of action as well as identity of time (when
the best translation is by the preposition in :) ce, Precfrrcfocis qrinrn
puerunt diligis, you act a most noble part in thus leving the child.

41. Ipsius victoriae. Victory in itself considered, without rcgard
to the victore who had gained it. ι

422 onmes· Orelli and Steinmetz read jore ornnes ς Schultz,
[jure] ornnes.

 

