onnhron FOR Μ. nascamus. 275

quisito information. See Donat. ad Terent, Eun. 4, l: Prudens esch&

qni intelligentia sua aliquid sentit ; sciens, qur alicujus Judrcro rem cog-
noscit.

21. Quod quidem meum eonsilium. And this purpose of
mine, sc. te adviso peace. ,

22. In hoc ordine. ln the senate.

23. Integra re. Before the outbreah of the war.

24. cum capitis mei perleulo. For the Pompeiane threatened
all who counselled peace. Plutarch, Cic. ³9, gives an account of an·
other danger which Cicero incurred, from declining the command
after the battle ef Pharsalia. Pompey the son, and others, with drawn
swords, assailed him, calling him trahor, and would have lairen his
life, had not Cato interfered and saved him.-Ez prro indicate transi-
tion, and = igitur, ergo. Orelli, Schultz, and Steinmetz: »inm nemo,
end below, rernm existimator. . . . cesarie coluntur de bell ....
mirum sortasse.

27. Statim, after the battle cf Pharsalia, while he was in Egypt.
SeeLig.p 7. Wolf. But Jacob interprete: statim ut deprecabantur,
immediately upon their applieation, without hesitation. On the omis·
sion of the adversative conjunctiou between the two clauses, see Z.
781.

Gn. VI.-31. Hujus quidem rei, Marcellum a bello abhorruisse.
Cicero, having attributed Caesar’s prompt pardcn of himself to his
advocacy of peace, now advances a like claim on the part of lilar-
cellus, to whose desire sor peace he himself bears witness, on the
ground of bis intimacy wilh Marcellus, and his knowledge of his
views.

34. certorum hominum. Cato, Lentulus, Scipio, &e- Vell.
249. Plut. Cres. 31. Certos autem hominesvocamus‚quosnomi-
nare aut otiosum, ut hic, aut superfluum.

35. Victoriae ferocitatem. Crudelitatem victorum, utensilia,
credes, proscriptiones.

Μ. Non enim Jam causae, &e Compare p. Lig. 6, 19.

38. Vidimus, &c Weiske notices the beanty of this c, both in
respect to the figurative expressions aud the construction. The first
clause is elisatio. See also Z. idi.

39. Gladium vagina vacnum, &e Victory had given to Cre-
sar power to avenge himself, but, far from imitating Marius and Sulla,
he wished to be fonnidable to his adversaries only on the field of bat-
tle. None of his enemies‚ with the exception of Afranius, Faustus
Sulla, aud the younger L. Caesar, pcrished but in battle. Suet. Grec.
75. But in the camp of Pompey there was only the breath of hatred
and revenge. Several days before the battle a list cl proscribed had
been drawn up, in which were included even those who had remaiued
in Italy, or who had shown indifference tc the cause. Pompey bim-

 

