250 nores

giffpauca, qrria floride—Maximo. Q, Fabius illeximus, called Cunctator

srorn his cantion in war.

35. Marcello. hl. Claudius Marcellus, celebrated os five tirnes
consul, and the conqueror os Syracuse-Scipioni. Manutius under-
stnnds the younger Africanus-Murio. C. Marius, seven times con-
sul. Cs. note on pus, line att-Et ceteris. In concluding an erru-
nreration os several persons or things, is et common with ulii and
celeri? Ζ.783.

39. at ud gloriam. Ernesti rejects the preposition. The besl
authorities give it. Gousnlt note on p. 18, line 5.

41. Dc quo nunc annuns. Some editions give poe de, placing
the preposition aster its case. On tlris usage in regard to de, see Z.
324.

44. Invisa diis, ie. il he said, in illias potestate snrtnnnm posi-
tnnr essa—Ingrata, is he sailed preterita meminisse, reliqna sperare.

60 2. Dourimilitiae. So also Klotz. Madvig, and others, nrilitiee-
que. For qrrnrrtuque ntattnioe prefers priuata, since Cicero is not
speaking ol beth the greatness of Ponrpey's deeds and ol' his good lor-
tune, bnt only of the latter. Such a connection, however, of the more
important with the less important, by means os an explanatory con-
junction, is not rnrconuuon. We might properly have expected, quan-
infelicitate tuntas ille res, dcc.

3. Ut = how-Assenserint. In Cicero the active form of this
word is very rare, except in the perfect tense and in the moods and
tenses derived sronr the perleot. The deponent or middle form an-
swers to its meaning more nearly than the active. ⁴

4. Obtenrperarint . . . . obedierint. . . . obsecundarini. Ob.
serva the propriety with which these ireres, which have the same
general signification, are selected and applied to their several subjecte.
Obedire denotes obedience as an obligation, and a state ol duty and

, subjection; obsecundare and obtemperare, as an act of free trull. The
obtemperans obeys lronr persnasion, estam, or sear, csincing his con-
sornrily to another’s will ; the obsecundans frorn love and cornplaisarrcc,
showing his readiness to obey. , Ded—Tempestatesqae. Tempestas
is a uocabulum medinm, and like ooletudnfocinus, dolos, dac.⁵ taken
not only in malam, bnt also in bonnm purtem. The “favor” of the
clemente was especially apparent in the piratica] war.

5. Neminem unquam. See Kreas, 5273 Ζ. 738.

6. (sui....tacrtus auderet· P. 0, 483 (Q Z. 556. Onthe
use ol tacitns, which may be rendered adverbially, see Z. 682.

10. Sicuti sacius. As evineed by the entraordinary honors and
offiees corrferred on him—Velle et optare. Velle means to wiell, and
co-operate towards the realization of one's wish3 optare, to ivan and
leave the realization of oue’s wish to others, or te sate; expetere, to
arten, and apply to others sor the realizatiou of one’s wish. Diid.

 

