THE ORATION FOR Τ. ANNIUS MILO.

——..-.

INTRODUGTION.

P. CLomth Puoouon tirst malres his appearance in history in Δ. v. o. uel,
serving with his brother nppins rrrrder his brother-inlaw, t. Lucullus, in Asia.
Displeased at not being treated by Lucullus with the distinction he had en-
pected, he encouraged the soldiers to mutiny. At'terwards, being intrusted by
his other brother-iulum Q. Marcius ilex, at thot time proconsul in Cilicia,
with the command ot' the lieet, he t'ell into the hands ol the pirates¹ who how-
ever disnrised him without ransom, through t'ear os Pompey. He nont went
to Antiocheia, and joined the Syrians in making war on the Arabiane. Here
again he excited some of tho soldiers to mutiny, and nearly lost his lito. He
now returned to llorne¹ and made his tirst appearance in civil atlans in Λ. u. c.
689, by impeaching Catiline sor entortiou in his governmentol At'rica, Catilina
bribed his accuser andjudge, and escapcd.

ln 1. u. o. too, Clodius accompanied the propraetor, L, Murena, to Gallia
Transalpina, where he resorted to the most uet'arious methodo or· procuring
money. He also had recourse to similar proceedings on his return to Rome.

Towards the classemve, Clodius was guilty of an actos sacrilege, which is
especially memorable, as it gave rise to that dcadly eumity between himself
and Cicero, which produced such important conseouences to both and to
Rome. The niysteries ottho Bona Dea were this year celebrated in the house
oleastri. Clodius⁷ who had an intrigue with Pompeia, Caesar’s wile¹ with the
assistance ol one of the attendants entered the housedisguised as a semele
musicinn. But while his gulde was gone to apprize her mistress, Clodius nias
detectod by his voice. The alarin was immediately given, but he made his
escape hythe aid of the dainsel who had introduced him. He was already a
candidate lor the quaestorship, and was elected3 bnt in the beginning of 1193,
before ho set out t'or his province, he was impeached lor this offence. The
senate referred the matter to the pontifices, who declared it an act ot' impiety.
Under the direction ol'the senate a rogation was proposed to the people‚ to the
effect that Clodius should be tried by judices selected by the praetor who was
to preside. T he asemona however, was broken up without coming to a de-
cisiou. The senate was at first disposed to persist in its original plain but af-
terwards, on the recomnrendation ot' Hortensius, the proposition os tho tribune
Fufius Calenus was adonicam accordance with which tlre judices were to be
selected from the three decuries Cicero, who had hitherto strenuously sup-
ported the senate, now relaxed in his exertions. Clodius attempted to prove
an alibi¹ but Cicero’s evidence showed that he was with him in Rome only
three hours before he pretended to have been at interamna. Bribery and iu·
timidarum, however. secured him an acquittal by a majority ol 31 1025. Ci-
cero, however, who had been irritated by some sarcastic allirsions made by
Clodius to his consulship, and by a verdict given in contradiction to his testi-
mony, attached Clodius and his partisans in the senate with great vehemenoe.

Eager to revenge himself on Cicero, that he might be armed with more lor-

midable power Clodius purposed hecoming a tribune ot the plebs. For this it

 

