reuera carmon ucnrusr CATILINE. 211

riam cursum. EMnretnoc’ crore.1³tit.u,46,119:Etenim 3ἶέΚᾲ
abhinc annos prope uiginti hoc ipso in templo (Concordia) negavi
porse nortem immaturam esse consulari, quanio aerius nono negabo
senii M.

ll· Fratris carissimi. Q. Cicero: his wife Terinam his
daughter Tullia3 his little son Marcus (then not quite two years old).

13. florumque omnium. Ernesti understands these words of
tho equites aod other friends oi Cicero, since videtis below refers to
the senators.

15. Quem mihi videtur amplecti res publica tamquam
obsidem. “Qui confirmet, me nihil gesturum io consulatu, nisi quod
saluti sit reip. Nam qui liberos habent, non minus liberorum causa,
quam sua, salvam remp. velle debent? Muret. cf. Dionys. Hal.
Rhea p. 237, ed. Reiske: ἔκ di rarii-oo rui εὐτιμυτίρυυς ἀνάγκη γίνεσθαι τους
ἀυθρώπους καὶ πιστοτέρους δοκεῖν καὶ εὐνουστέρους περὶ τὰς αὐτῶν πυτρίᾶας iu
παντὶ, dui τὸ ὥσπερ ὅμηρα ὖεᾶωκέυαι ταῖς πατρίσι τοὺς ἔαυτιῖυν παῖδας, Μ.
[Ahrens⁵ Orelli, tao, who attach the genuineness of this oration, say
that Cicero was now Consul, not a vir consularis, i. e. one who lind
been Consul. To this Klotz replieS, that with respect to his general
position in the state, he wasone ol those who had reached its highest
honor, the Consulship3 that if Cic. had said “ to n Cnnsul‚'' he would
both have unnecessarily limited the iroth, aod mede it too immediately
applicahlo to himself 3 and that the concinnity oi the sentence requires
rather the adjective consularis than the substantive consul : . . . . uiro
sorti . . . . consulari . . . . sapienti. He shows too that Cicero, in an-
other place, uses consularis of Curionis, as well as os Gonsulors, when
he speaks oi them as a stow e. g. Philipp. 5, §123 where, aster
mentioning several Consulem, he adds D. Silano L. Murena, qui tum
erent Consules designati ; placuit idern, quod consularibus ht. Cn·
terii, duo, where even consuis elect are called consulares]

18. Gener. C. Calpurnius Piso Frugi; who died before his
fallier-in-law's restoration, s. υ. υλ 69ῖ. He was not yet a senator,
but must be supposed standing at the door of the Temple os Concord,
Manui Cf. 'Pacilus⁵ Arrnnl. 2, 37: Hortalus-quotuor filiis onte
limen curie adstantibus-cd hunc modum ceph,- P. G. hos, quorum
annueram et pueritiam videtis, non sponte sustuli. Klotz. For ud-
stnt Madvig reads sni-proven = t cro moved. Its position at the
beginning of its clause points it out as the important and emphatic
word in the sentence. See Z. 789, and compare below, linc 27, tc-
centor ii, where a similar coutrast ot negative eod affirmative stote-
ments occurs.

19. Sed in eam partem. The prononn is here used in the re-
strictiva sense, which is noticcd with regard to ito ond tantus in Z.

726.

 

20. Una rei publicae peste. Una pertis = postis que omnes

