224 noras.

(ἵζω tho patronos of tho Allobroges, probably because Q. Fabius Max·
inrns hud conquercd thern. Cs. de Off. l, 12, 35. So Cicero was ihc
patronus of the Siciliane—Hospitiisqnc. Such ties of hospitality
osten grew into the relationes patron and client, und increased tho
dignity and authority ottho Roman citizen who ivos the patron.

11. Urbanis opibus = auctoritato et potentia amicorum ei oli-
enturn urbanorum.

12. Igitur = inquam (Z. 739), and in this connection with igitur
the pronoun is not ia· hut irie, since the latter rosere moro distinctly to
the preceding, .

15. Consulatus memoriam. Compare 3 Cot. 11,Ξῦ-

16. Dum erit. Dum with the futuro = quamdiu.

21. Suo solius. The genitivo solius agrceiug with the genitive
implied in tho possessivo suo. See Krebs’ (irride, h 105.

24. De nris ac focis. A well-known forrnula sor private dwell-
ings. For soei were fireplaces in the alrirnn sor sacrifices lo the
household gods (lares), and ortu were little altars in the impluvium
for sacrifices ro the guardian deities (penulati-De sonis atque iem-
plis. P. C. p, 128, note y.

The result of this debato is given in the General Introduction, p. 144.

It nray here be briefly stated, that the genuineness of the Oratione
against Catiline has not been unquestioued. Eaclr in its turn hasbeen
attached. The second oration was early assailed, in consequence of a
remark of F. A. Wolf, that one ol the sour was spurious, he at the
same tirne adding, ‘¹ esse alteram e modiis dnulrnsff' Wolf however,
it appears, intended the third, and hc seems to have adopted this opin-
ion from a suggestion rnade by Eichstiidt, But the genuineness of the
fourth oration has been nrost warnrly assailed, and by the largest nurn-
ber. The first had escaped, until receutly ithus lound en assailant in
R. A. illorstadt. Orelli (Orati. relecti. Cicer. pp. rifi-182) endeavors
io prove that all, with the single exception ol the first oration, are spu-
rious. But notwithstanding these attacks, thc genuineness of these
orations has had ahie desenders in hladvig, Drumann, and many oth-
ers.

 

