396 nonne.

ffithe patronus und petrone. 111 the signification of rnurder os one's fn-

ther, it is os comparatively mre occurrence in 1101111111 writers, although
the derivatien from pater vves approved by them. Quinctil. 8, e, ³5.
Perhaps the vory old pereleide (paricidii) is to he derived honr παρά,
ns iu παρααρεαβεύω, παραβαίνω, end cellere This παρά expresses per-
verseness, wielredness, aud is to be found osten in tho Latin prefix per
(perfuga, perjuram, perduellio). Γ111111 the word did not take the iorni
persida, nrny be owing to the high nrrtiquity os the notion andthe
word, or to regard sor euphony. Legel sorms were not rendily changed.

tr. ln monumentis majorum suorum, in viu Appia. 'ltus
rond, which still partially remeius, was nrado by Appirrs Claudius Cae·
eus in his censorslrip. Sclnnitz, Rotae, 11181. On the so-eatled plu-
rate tuntum rnojornm, compare Varro, de R. R„ 1, 2, 9, eujus 11111-
jores . , . narn Stolonis illa len, &e Cf. L. lllnuil. 12, 33, sor a similar
nse os libert-Quod is . . . . sit iuteiscetus. Z. 549, Klotz: necarit.

43. Ab istis, Clodianis, with contempt-Proinde. Z. 282 and
weltere.

41. Nonqua....sed uhi=non utea....sedutibiandthere·
fore uteretur and latrocinareutar. Z. 5157. Tho Clodiane, it seems,
urged it as an aggravation os Milo’s guill, that he killed Clodius on e
rond construeted by his ancestors3 aud Quinctil. 5, 11],411, points out
the soree ot this pert os the Clodianeharge. 011 the same principle, M.
Manlius could not be eorrvieted while ho remaiued iu sight of the eap-
itel. Liv. 6, 20. Cicero replies hy admitting the aggravationis his
opponente will adurit that Appius made the read to afford his posterity
an opportunity ef plundering there with impunity.

m 1. Itaque. Aeeordingly3 i. e. supposiug the road made for the
above purpose.

2. Quum ornatissimum equitem Romanum P. Clodius Μ.
PapirIum. Tire order should be notieed, which appears ehosen sor
the purpose ef giving an ironieal emphasis te tho name of Ρ. Clodius,
in eontrast with a highly respectable Roman hnight⁷ who, however,
cannot compare with Clodius in ancestral dignity3 and M. Papirium
is added t'or explanation : viz. M. Papirius

3. Papirium. Pompey had, sonre time belone, brought to Romo
the son ol Tigranes king of Armenia, as a prisoner, and after his tri-
umph, put him under the cere os Flavius, a senetor. The young
prinee, assisted hy Clodius, attempted to escape, hut the ship, in which
he esnbmhed, was driven into Antium. Flavius on hearing ints, has·
tened to reeover Tigranes, when a reneorrtre eusued between F levius
aud Clodiae, in which Papirius, Pompeys friend, was stain, This was
the origin ol Pompey’s enmity to Clodius

5. Quantas tragedias. What a commotion! Dein. Cor.
ὥσπερ ἔν τραγῳᾶίᾳ βοῶντα, dr γῆ καῖ ἥλιε καῖ ἀρετή.

7. Usurpatur = vocatur, commemoratur, is telked of.

 

