ormnorr ron n. rinitoumus. 281

rather refers to the readiness of the senators to dolend cesar at thoppfflp⁶

risk ol their ovvu lile.

10. Oppositus: oppositiones, an ἅπαξ λεγόμενον in Cicero. So
positus, oppositus, and other compounds, occur lor the form in io.

Cn. rit-21. Ut. Klotz has admitted this coujunctiou from
MSS, by which tho sentence ismaro compactly connected and round-
od. So also Steinmetz, Sopho, and Schultz—Unde, so. gratiarum
actione. .

22. Gratias agimus . . . . habemus. See note on p. 12, line ii.
Lambinus reads roojorem, sc. gratiam, in accordanee with the more
common constructiones imber-e.

23. Maiores to preserve the construction unilorm and parallel
with the preceding rouaiioos . . . . agiricus. Compare ob ollis posito,
ob eliis erepto, etr. Notice also that the comparative enhances the
superlative, lor tho superlative does not always mean the higlac-st, but
only a diglr degree of a given quality. Cs. de Off. 3, 121: Tibi per-
soode, esse te quidem milri rorissimam, sed nrollo fore
cariorem, &c.; io out. 3, 5, 13.—Idern sentiunt. Eutertaiu the
same sentiments os gratitude.

24. Lacriffiis· Compare p. Seri. 11: flensunz'oersosordo diei3
lor orossc, aud p. Lig. ip 13.

25. Starrtibus. Senators vrlro did not vvish to make a speech on
the question, asserrted while retaining their seats. Ad Fam. 5, Q, 9:
sederis iis assensi. The text in this passage is very corrupt. Orelli
gives: sed, puio non est stantibus omnibus necesse dicere, o me certe
diei colunt, coi necesse est poodorn ruodo, qood ooluot; et qoodfieri
decet, et qnod, M. rior-cello o le boio ordini, populoque Romano el rei
publica reddito, fieri id intelligo. This he explains as lollorvs: But
because itis not necessary sor all to rise and speuk, they desire me to
do so, upon whom their rvish imposes the obligation; both because it
'ns proper in itselt' to give thunks norv to you, and because it is ii. Mar-
celIus‚ my friend. that has beon restored by you, lor whose restoration
I norv thauk you. With slight variations the. common text agrees ivith
tho above lrom Orelli, except that et is given beiore quod solvent, and
fieri omitted before deeot; and precipue o rue Jieri debere, or preci-
pue id o oie ,lieri debere, or precipue id o rue fieri, are sound heloro
intelligo. But ol praecipue o roe and debere there is no truce in
MSS. Steinmetz irom MSS. gives the reading of Klotz, except that
alter quodammodo he retains in brackets et quod colunt and el qood
before M. Marcello. He also indicates a lacuna beiore ‚lieri id intel·
ligo. They rvish me to speak, who ani under ahiud of necessity of
so doing, and rvho feel tire propriety ol it, since Marcellus has 'ueeu
restored, &s

28. Nou de. Orelli, Schultz, aud Steinmetz, noo ot de ,· aud in
the next line, sed ot ile, &e

 

24*

