45⁰ nores.

{²3} m⁰¹¹⁸ys Whleh Gladius> ‘113 Quievi. 4, shows was customarily doposit-

ed there-Ad Castoris. Z. tte.

³2. Volitarunt. Ranged through. Itexpressesasert ol licenso
and impunity in outrage. See note on p. 20, line 29.

33. Distnrbari. Driven here and thero, dispersed.

³4. M. celius. When the sate of Clodius was known at Rome,
the tribune Coelius, a friend ol Milo, collected his adherente, and be-
gan to explain the ontrages that led to Clodius¹s death. He was in·
tcrrnpled by the tribunes Plancus and Q. Pompey, urhe, with an ormed
mob, dispersed the rneetiug, and slew numbers. Coelius and Milo
escaped in the dress ol slaves.

' 35. serenissimus, dae. He even opposed the arrangement olCn·
Pompey regarding this trial 3 till Ponrpey threatened to put down his
opposition by soree. Compare Brut. 79, 2l3.

37. Fortuna singulari. Why may not singulari be joined with
fide? Z. 783.

Cn. mlv-as. De eansa3 wherein he proved Clodius tho
aggressor : eh. 12.-Ezo·a corisum ; wherein he proved that Milo's aet
was praiseworthy‚ even supposing it irrtentional, eh. 27. The veriam
dicendi is to be supplied, which is osten omitted The epilogus or pero-
rallon now follows. Quinctil. 4. 1, 28: Ia ingresso. parcius ct ino-
destins pretentande sil ¹indicis misericordie, in epilogo vero liciat
totos effundere effectus, etfictrnn orationem iuduere personis, ei de·
suiectus excitare. &e Cicero's skill in conclusions is pre-eminent: he
was acknowledged by his contemporaries to be a master in thern, and
when several orators appeared in one ease. tho closing argument Wsss ,
readily yielded to him, even by Hortensius. Brut. 513 Orat. 37;
Bolh. ῖς Sest. 23 Mareu. 23. Laterensis, the accuser of Cn. Plan·
eins, charged him with having proposed a severe law against ambitus,
that hc might have an opportunity to deliver tonclring perorations.
Plane. 34, 83. Sehol. Bon aa oret. pro Flacco, tr (p. 245, Orelli:
secutus videlieet suani consuetudinem et artis oratoriae disciplinam, nt
lacrimosis affectibus prope serrtentinm judices impleantur. Cicero is
called hv Quinctil. 11, 1, 85, suarinas tractandorum animorum erti-
fex, and the elosing chapters of this oration, give a complete illustra-
tion ot' his shill and power.

40. Misericordiam. . . . quam ipse uon implorat. lllilo re·
jected with disdain the usual means of awokening the compassion of
the jndges3 the leurs, the suppliant gesture, and monrning garb. This,
besides tho defense, Cicero must aleno undortahe. Quinctil. 6, 5, 10,
praises the orator, quod Miloni preces nou dederit, et in euroni locam
ipse successerit. Cs. Id. 6, l, 24, and ll, 1, 40. Plut. Cic. 35, says:
Milo with his nrrmoved resignation, which Cicero here represents es
magnanimity, formed a marked eoutrast to the alarmed and panie-
stricken Cicero.

 

