{eg 26. corruant. The subjunctive as containing the advice which

Cic. had promised, ch. Β, 17.-Seu ito, ut noo ruodo, &c- “Ita ut
nullum incommodum eruina ipsorum non modo od civitatem sed ne
ad vicinos quidem perverriat.” Muretus, who considam the expression
proverbial and suspects that there isan allusion to an old play, as Plato

has ἡμῶν δὲ γεννωμένων, τὰ τοῦ κωμῳδοποιοῦ, ett' ol γείτονες σφόδρα roz nio-
thtvevrcu, Ateio, 1, p. 121, and Plutarch (Phocion, eoo), aar μὲν τὴν
σὴν μητέρα γαμοῦντος obd’ dystro» ᾔσθετο.

28. Honeste = with honor, in consequence of their debis.

32. Neque. . . possunt et pereant. Here two leading clauses
are connected, the sonner of which stands as unconditional iu the in-
dicative, the latter as concessive in the subjunctive. On oeque . . . et,
see Z. 3³8, in fin.

34. Postremum. In a double sense “the last and wcrst,’' ae
Cicero immediately explains it

36. Propr1um‚ in the full meaning of what is peculiarly and ex·
clusirelyhis—De complexu ej ns ae siau = of his bosom friends. Tho
expression is figurative, and derived from the Roman custom of re-
clining at table. It is often used in a good sense ol an intimate and
valued friend. Muretus thinks there may be here an allusion to Cati·
line’s impurity of life.

δῖ. Quos pexo capillo, nitidos, &c Some editions omit the
comma between eupillo and nitidos, making pezo capillo limit and
define nitidos. Compare oh. 3, 5, qui nitent unguentis, and ch. 5, 10,
unguentis obliti. ,

38. Bene barbatos = a adultiores qui barbula delectentur,'’
ut loquitur pro Coel. 14, 33. Μ. Cf. DietAritiq,Baream—lilonicu-
tis et talaribus tunicis. ‘¹ It was considered a mark of effeminacy
sor men to wear tunics with long sleeves (ananiense), aud reaching to
the feet (tolores).’' Diet. Antip, Turvrca. cf. Gen. N. A. 7, 12.

39. Velis amictos non togis, i. e. “in such loose and flowing
togas that they should rather be called ociis!¹ A close-fitting toga
indicated a person of strict character, &c.; eg. exigueque loge
simulet textore Gelonem. So, os course, an ample flowing toga be·
longed to luxurians, rp‘erninate livers. Tunc procul adsitis, quisquis
colit orte capillos, Effluit effuso eui roge loire siau. M.

40. coenae antelucanae were banquets carried on all through the
night till the day broke: this was called coenere ia luceat

41. Gregibus. Contemptuousiy. Se ch. 5, ro: flagitiosi greges.
-Aleetores See note on p. 22, line 1.

43. Neque cantare et psallere· Snpply solum from the pre·
ceding. cantare properly of vocal music3 psallere of instrumental
music, particularly cn strInged instrumente, accompanied by the voice.
Some editions give eantare et satiare, others psallere et saltare.

26 ι. scitote. arci.

 

