onnrron noe n. Annroe nno. 389

1. Etsi perdupicntcr, &e This is a correction of edent enim {³3⁶

leges, &cz as is he said, “ Though why eny thc luws are siicnt arnidst
anns, when in their silence they sanction the principie os scii-descnce
by not hardy forbidding homicide, which they do us a rnnttcr os course,
but uso to carry arms with n hostile intention ;'' the obvious inserence
sronr which was, thot they might be carried is thot intention did not
exist. This Cicero culis tacite dut . . , . potestatem defendendi—Ipsa
iere, i. c. Cornciie de sicariis etvcnefiein Lege Cornelio de sicariis et
uerteficis terretur, qui liernineut occiderit , . . , quive irorninis occiden-
di censo euin teio ambulaverit. D. te, 8, i. Lee Cernetiudeeiee-
riie, quie hoinieidee nitere ferre persequitur, dec. ruse 4, 18, 5,
where Justiniun has introduced tho nitore serre persequitur into the
lez Cornelia, which made the penalty eque et iguis interdictio, i. e.
exile. In Justiniau's tirne the punishment was rnnde capital.

2. Non hominem occidi. Klotz: nee rrrodo boirzinem occidi, i. e.
does not merely prohibit the hilling es a man, but the carrying ef a
weapen, dcc, For though the cecidere is more than the teinmm.
hebere, yet Cicero regards it as the reverse in the law, which consid-
ers more the intention to biii then the hiiiing itself. See note on p. fir,
line dii-Esse erem telo. This was prohibited by the Twelve Tables.
Cie. ud Att. 2, 24, 3: Fu senatus consenum, nt Vestino, qnod eon·
fessus esset se enin ielosniese, in vinculo conjiceretur] In Vutin.
10, 24. In Verr. 5, 3, T: ut ue quie cnm telo servus esset. On the
notione comprehended in the generic word telum, see Arnoid's Nepos.
Det. 11, 3.

3. Quum cansa, dec. = qutun quereretur, quie causa suisset teli
gestandi, non habueritne teiunr is, qui oceidit, i. er by questioning the
erronee, noi the feet os carrying arrrn.

ὓ. Maneat in causa. Cf. de Off. 3, 19, 49ι riiuuent erge: qued
turpe sit, id utinquam esee utile, dcc. Cicero conceires that he has
now fully estnbiished the legality of homicide in seis-desence, and thus
resuted the first praejruliciurn.-Non enim. Z. 808.

i· Probatur-ns siin, ie. de veritate defensionis meae vebis persua-
surus sirn3 make good to yon, &c

8. Oblivisci non potestis. Quia est lex naturalis, quie sui de· r
tendendi cansa aliurn interficere jubeat.

Cui-10. Sequitur illud. He begins the reiutation ei the
prejudicio, 1. ef the senate: 2. of Pompey. Cf. Quinctil. 5, 2.

11. cenem, dec. The decrce was enpressed in general ierms,
but admitted of a particular appiication, which the opponente es Mile
made. Cicero, therefore, eontends sor the general interpretation, and
shows that in the various dehates which had taken piace in the sen-
ate since the death of Clodius, Milo’s cause was invorinbiytriurnphant3
that the charge agelnst the senate ef subnritting te his (Cicero’s) dic-
tation, and not their own jndgment, proved the strength oi Milo’e

33³*-

 

