MANUAL

01³

ahothhv GEOGRAPHY ahi) distorti.

ΒΥ witnetn Ρϋτῑ,
Pometiam TUTOR IN THE GYMNASIUM OF Donntt.

X

translated from tho German.

EDITED ΒΥ THE tthv. THOMAS tt. ARNOLD, nih,

naraon or n sanias on “cnacn arvo nnrm rann-noons.’¹
One volume, tomo. oi.

¹¹ At no period nas History presented sttch strong clnims npon the attention os the learned, as

ttthe pres ηπ and [ο tto pooplc vvere its lcssonsos such vnluc as to those os tho Uttitod

{totos h z. os ourown to rovert to. tho great inasses ol‘ottr hottoroducated arc tctnpted

which comprehcnds all others in in grasp. To prcparco text-book¹ tvhich

cnr. and accurato view os the ottc' nortona geography, it ticnl,

' ·“ ‚sorta . re imon„ stote, must he the resttlt only os vast tttdnstry and Ienrmnff. Ottr cxtttni-

tration os the present volume lends ns to believe. that ns a text-hook on ancient History, l'tn· t'ol-

teees and nerdennes. it is tlte hest compend vet pnhlished. lt hears marhs in its methodical
“ td cottdcnsntion otnrntertals, osthe untirine patience oi German schola ” ς i

trottgh the Entlish nnd American prese, has hecn ‹triapted sot accepta s . '

ons. A notice'nhle feature os the boon, isnits pretty complete list oi ‘sources nl ⁴
inthrmntion’ npon the nattons which tt describes. This will he an invaluable aid to the student
in his future course ot'rending.”

⁴⁴ Wilhelm Pide, the author oi this *nannai os Ancient Geography ond History,⁷ is Prittcipal
Tutor (Olrrlehtr) ln the Gymnasium os Daren. Gertnnny. His hooh enhtnhs the adv ves ol
tlte German method os trentittg History, in its arrangement, its elasstficannn, additor nilv-
sis. The Manunl is what it purports to he. ‘a clear ond definite outline os the his
“ “ “ tiqui y,' into which is incorporated a concise geography os ench country.
,r - olr; to he shtdIed. and not merely mod. histo {orm the erottttdtvoth oi
suhseqttcn rical ittvcstigntiott.-the tttoterials 01· yvhich nre pointed out, nt thepropcv places,
in the otnant. in caresul reterences to the vvorhs tvlnch treat ot' the subject directly undet· mn·
sidemtion. The lisr os reserentes (especially aa regards earlier worhs) is qttite complete—thus
supplying that desideratum m Ancrent tttstorv ont] Geography, tvhich hasbeen supplied so sully
by Dr. J. ieseler in Ecclesiastical History.

1 considered in the Mantith ate: in Asia, the israelites, thc In-
dians. the Assyrians, the Medes. the Persians. the Phoenicians, the states os Asta
Minor: in Ethiopians. the Egyptians, the Carthagintans3 in Euro te, the Greeks. the
Macedonians. te hingdorns which arose out os the Macedonian Monarchy. tite Romans. The
order in which the history os each lstrcoted. is admirable. To the whole ote appendcd a ‘Chro-
nological Tabless ond a well-prepared series os ‘Questions' The pronunciation os proper
names is indicated-an excellent tenure The occents are given with remarkable correctness.
Thetypographica!executionostheAmericaneditionismostexcellent.⁷⁷-›S¹.lllBaptistChrwntte

“ Like every thing tvhich proceeds stom the editorshlp os thot. eminent Instructo, T. K. hmold,
this Manual appears to he well suited rothe desrgn tvtth which ic was prepared, and wih tm-
douhtedly‚ secnre sor itsels a place among the text-horda osschools and academies thoughnm. tlte
country. lt presente an outline os the history os the ancient notioris, stom the earliest aves to the
sall os the western Empire in the sixth century, the events being arranged in the ordesos on
accurate chronology. and explained by accompattytng trentises on the yeogrophy of tho several
cotmtries in which they transpired3 The chiet'seatttre oi this work, and this is a very important
one. is. that it sets forth ancient history and anetent geography in their connection tvith each

other. ’

“It tvos originally prepared hy Wilhelm Piitz. an eminent Gennan scholar, and translated ond
edited in E Rev. T. tt, Arnold. and is now revised and introduced to the American
uhlic ina n presat soy oh. George W. (necne, Teaeher os Modern Languages in
grown University.⁷''—Proc. Joz snat.

 

