onnrrorv ron riis rom Ancurae. 861

many werke, Cicero has called hie trcalisc, de Senectute, asterhirn, iffi

and made him one ol the interlocutum in it. Cf. dc Orat. l, 37.-
Si nileil . . . , adjuvarentur. Wnere we should use the pluperl. cf.
20a1.4,3, 2525.

42. nt si, dcc. Where roe should use “ lut.'' See note on p. 100,
line le.

43. Harrc animi adversionem. “Tendcncy” or “directior oi
the mind,¹’ “mental occuparent The substantive adversio is not
found iu any other passage. Matthiae observes that acilinum aduertere
is much less thau studere rei or operum in ea collocare. But Cicero
may choose to speak ol semo attention to such studies us a secondum,
though interesting and vala-able, pursuitv Madvig: aninei recensentem,
which Orelli also approves.

44. Judicarctis = judicare deberetis. Cl. Etenim qai preesse
agro colendo flagitium putes‚prosecto illum Atilium, quera suu nranu
spargentem semen, qut missi erant, convenerunt, loruinem turpissi-
mam atque inhonestissimum judicares. Pro nese. Ain. 18, 50.-
Nam cetere, &c ..... ulltaec. Madvig omits ot. Hand (Pars. 1,
420) correcte the prevalent norton, that in such contrasted cases the
adversative particle ut is usually omitted. He gives a great many iu·
stances ot its insertion. Fecit idem Themistocles. . . . nt idem Peri-
cles nonfecit . . . . Att. 7, 11 : Ut rtrajores nostri Tusculanos, &c .....
in ciuitatem . . . . acceperunt: at Karthaginem et Numantiamsandi-
tas sustulerunt. Off l, ll—Cetcrae‚ sc. auirni adversiones, i, e, artes,
studia. Namely, theseos amore practical nature ; the object of which
is not solely the ennobling oi the mind, but hy which we may make
ourselves usesul to our country and our sellom-men. Nauck inclines
to think cetera tho true reading, and ceterae res a gloss on this.

l. Omnium belongsto each ot the genitives, temporum, etatum, 102
locorum.

2. Acuunt. Klotz, Stiirenburg, Benecke, and Nauck retain the
reading of the MSS. agunt, in the sense of employ, keep busy.

4, Non impedIunt forIs. Acold praise. Iu Or. 43, extr. he
expresses himself sar more strongly: qrroe qrtidem tue autea injudicio
atone iu curiam deducebant, nunc oblectant donzi Mattlriae’s next
remark that peregrinari, rusticari, ece, eonvey no great praise, be·
cause the wished deoices ol bad men oecupy thern as sully by day and
by night, at home arrd obruad, has no good foundation. That the
presence of good is perpetual, is a hlessing that is not diminished he·
cause the presence of evil is perpetual too. With the general praise,

Heumann compares Fam. 5, 13: Quibus secunda res ornantur, adoer-
eee achuuontur. Quinct. 6, prooem. 14: Credendumque doctissimis iro-
minibus‚ qai unicum adversorum solatium literas putaverant. Ptin.
Ep· Β, 19: Et gandium miii et solatium in literis, niiilque tarn
letum, orroei iiis latias, nibil tam triste, quoti uon per lias sit ruinas

at

 

