Foonn'n ORATION homost* Othlrth'. 2l5

Page

10. popularis. Pro Sosim: qui aa, qrrasooiooont quoique l
dicebaut, inultitrrdinijucundn nolebant esso populures. . . . ludelmu-
tur, The name popularis lost the good senso in which it stands helow,
line 19, and denoted one who songht to goin the lavor ol the crowd,
and loohed sor support to tho mass os the pcoplo, as opposed to the
optimotos; and even became idontificd with seditiosus and turbulen-

tus. 'l'ha shados os meaning between these extremos will he noticed
in this chapter.

11. Cognilore=dcscnsore Ernesti in Cl. Aitotorsententiae
is the original proposes of an opinion; cognitur, one who dcsends it as
his oivn.

13. Nescio, an = perhaps. See P. O. 116 and p. 203, 253 Z.
³54 and issi-Amplius . . . . negotii. “ Rara dictio. N o tamon re-
scribas plus negotii. N am et apud Caes. Β. G. o, 9, est aruplius ob-
sidum.” Heum.

15. vuroat. The MSS. hero give vindicat, which Klotz retains.
Vincat firmat Scholiasta. Orelli—Hadcmas eninr, dec. Cicero, hav-
ing obsorvcd the impression which Caesar’s opinion had made upon
those who were present, designedly praises it, in order to show his
deserence and respect sor him, and thereby at the same time also to
render him more yielding and disposed to adopt severer mensures.

16. Tamquam obsidem. “ Quae confirmet, enm ita popularem
fore nt tamen semper sit bonarum in rep. partiumss’ h‘Iuret⁴

18. Quid intersit· Lael. 25, 95: Contio, quae ex imperitissimis
constat, tomen judicare solet, quid intersit inter popularem, io est,
assentatorem et leuem ciuem, et inter constantem, seuerum et gro-
·oem. hl. Quid interesset is the reading ot Klotz aad Madvig srom
the MSS. On the repetition ol inter· aiter interesse, see Z. 745.

19. De istis. Z. 308 and 430 in fia.

20. Non neminem ..... IS, &c “The far more trnstworthy
Scholiast of Gronovius says, that hy this non necno Cicero means Q.
Metellus Nepos; against whose odions speech to the people Cicero
had to deliver aformal defense of himself in the beginning os the next
year. Compare the fragments of the Oratio ceretro Concioneru Q.
elireto? K.-Hence the use os the singular is relating to noa neruo ;
one only being intended, though vaguely pointed out. Ol course nou
neruo means more than one3 hut the is proves that the priucipal res-
erence is to an individual. Z. 755.

21. Videlicet, ironical. Z. 345.

25· Qssaesitori, &o Cicero had not really been appointed (as
quasitor) to try the cause, nor had there been a regular trial; bnt ho
pnts a general case, to which the present was anologmrs, though not
identical with io

29. Semproniae legis, de capite civium Romanorum, proposed by
C. Gracchus, Δ. a. c. 631. It enacted that the people only should de-

 

