298 nonus.

r
ffiinter, e. g. qne inihi recum conocnzt, and qud inter rogem Pausani-

amque convenerant. Tho persons ore often unoxpresscd, when they
can ho easily supplied; e. g. conditiones non convenerunt, und sre-
qnently res, pao coizocnit. When conuenire is construed irnpersorially,
the persons nro expressed as in the personal construction, bnt the thing

is put in the ahlntive with de, or introduced hya following clariso,
with ur or tho relativo. Here too tho personsniay ho nnenpresscd,
e. g. quibuscum sihi de poce conventia,- niihi cuin Deiotaro corrue-
nir, nt illc . . , esset, und qriunr de 'facto convenit Finally‚ coiioeiiire
de re can also be used of persons who are agreed upon a thing, hut
then crini is not allowahle. Corracaio cuni aliquo therefore is not
Latin, hut convenimus is correct, e. g. quum de predo non coriceni-

reni. Justin. 15, 4, 23.
26. Quum . . . . voluisses. Qiruni ie snbstitntod, from MSS,

by recent editors, sor the common reading si, which however Klotz re-
taius. Quum is to he taken as consul, Z. 577, “since yon would
huve wished,’' duc, and the conditional clause, si ine et multos Poni-
peinnos nt sceleratos seioosscs, is to be supplied in the mind.

2⁸1. Secessionem. Arnild word for defection or revolt3 taken
from the early secessions of the Romans to Mons Sacer, Janicnlnrn,
tic, by adopting which ho frees Caesar from the charge of exciting a
civil war.

29. Dissidium. This word Orelli here retains. The best MSS.
give discidium. Madvig (ud Fin. p. 812, fg) rejects dissidium alto-
gether, and denies that it is n Latin word. His reasons are, that its
forn] iscontrary to the usual forninti0n3 that, wherever it is found,
the oldest and hest MSS. give discidiunr; and that partly the thought
and connection, partly the grammatica] relation of the words, requiro
discidium in the sense of soporatio, discessio. He states tho result at
the conclusion of his investigation, as follows: Satis confirmatum
esse opinor, nullum esse Latinum vocabulum dissidium, id autern,
quod est, discidium, ita late patere, ut non solnm ad eornnr separatio-
nem, quiin diversa loca distrahantur, pertineat, scd ad omnes, quornm
conjunctio, etiarn anirnornrn vinclo astricta, prorsus tollatur et in irri-
micitias convertatur. See Seyffert’s Lelius, p, 152, fg-Utrisque
cupientibus. Aliter loquitur, quum oratorem agit, aliter cnm arnico.
Cf. nd Art. 8, ll: Doniinotio, quesita oli utroque est: non id octoni,
heato et honesto cioitos nt esset ; 10, 4: Utrique seraper petrice sn-
lns et dignitas posterior sno dominatione et domesticis coniiizodis
fnit. On the plural of aterque, see Ζ, 141, Note 2.

30. Partim consiliis· Sonie through upright vietus—Partim
studiis. Others again through party feelings.

31. Paene par· Pur closes its clause with emphasis, and is ro·
peated at the beginning of the nent clause with eqnal emphasis. This
figure is called anadiplosis.

 

