ornatu

Olllllonllb llll llllel
OF LEARNING ΤΟ nuni), WRl'l'E, AND SPEAK

lllll Glllllltl Llltttllon.

Mprintod frotn tho Frrtnltfort cottion, to wltiolr ia atltletl a systemlne outline of the differen
Parte olSpoeclr, their lntlottion tinioso, trirlt full Parattgms, anda
complete Listos tlte lrrogulur Verbsv

ΒΥ GEORGE d. notan, Α. 3.,
Professor of German in tho University of tlte City of Nett-Yorlr, One volume, limo. et to,

[ἶ A KEY TO THE EXERCISE87inaseparate volume. 75 ets.

¹‘ Oritanooarr's nero atelnod of Learning to [laod Wrt'

μαίᾳ tvitlt a systemate outline os German G

war s tultiol bins„r to bo tlosirotl on tlto v

ficulnea are y antl exactly provitlotl for, t of satisfaetton antl ptogrev ¹
is solt frotn tlte beuinninr to tlte entl of tlte boo n of one of tho lassons wr
satisl'y any ono rtttntnintetl with tlte olemontso ι , liat it adopts itself perfeetl
toliis wunts, Witb tlte systematis outline of vg rof. noter, tlte new tnetlrotl issu·
stantially perfect, antl it is probably seeontl in ’ 'g sonly to resilence and intercours

witlt otltteutol Get·tnrtrts.”

“ Tite stutly oftlre German is heoorning so art of an ortlinary education tha
every worlr tetttlIng to facilitate tlte acquisrtion ll be woleomed. An Arnen
oanotlitionofOllentlortllrnsbeenrnucnwr t , ponnantmtprmeiptes
lle toaclros hy leatling tho stutlent to tlte ition of pltntst n wlnolr lte tletluttes tire rule
of tlte langnntye. Tbez'rllornsarealsocarotu γ’ 1¹lt¹ lt tu constructiones tnesyste
ts such that, ifatllteretl to tvitlt fidelity unt] pers uro such a praetieal know
tetigt of rho German as ran be utqurretl by no rttlrer . so rupitlly antl tltoronghly.⁴ W
ltonrtily cottttntntl the boolt to alt who really wislr t rstantl a tongue wlneh contains st
many treasures.

NEW Gnrlltlntn Fon GERMANS TO Luat-tn* ENGLISH.

Olllllbltll’t—llll llll'llttl

OF

traantur} ro nnat), natan Ano sanat<
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE

THROUGH THE llnnlblt OF THE GEllllANg

arranged and adopted for Soltools and Privato instruction,
ΒΥ Ρ. G Α Ν D S.

One volume, inno.
roy to fle santo, tttttfornt tollit tlte abore, Ptt'ct 75 ιτς,

“My compilation of tlte Frenclr Grnmnrar after tlte merbotl of Ollenrlorfl} has made tlte Ger
man public so tlroroualrly acquainterl with titis highly praetieal system of instruction, that it wil
not be necessary to altr any further reoonnnentaion in titis place. It was so universalty ac
lrnorrlerlgetl ant] otloptetl. that l was intluoetl to con sitnllar Grammar for Gernrans t.
learn English, anti I ditl this tlte nrore willingly because l was urged to do so by many nom a
quarters.

‘⁴ ln carrying out the plan, I endeavoretl to introduce exereises in questions anti nnstve ⁴
suited to familiar and sooial conversarion, so us to (lo away wirlt tlro antiquated Pltrase-boolr
still in use. The frequent application antl repetition of tlte rnles set fortlr in titis book. l hav.
snught to malie as free fronr [lull nronotony as possible, by giving tle sentences a new tura, an
by arranging tlienr in different ortler, ro as not to repeat the sanie orer antl orer again

‘⁴ A moneat routine of instruction carried on for ninny years, lias taught me the wantso
the stu eut; l feel therefore perfeetly confident in bringing iltis book before tlte public.

24 ¹¹1². GANDS'¹

 

