382 nores.

{¹5³7 't- Requirnnt = desiderant, miss—Corone. The ring or crowd

of propte, thul wero gnthercd uronnd, when o public trinl, which en-
listed their epnpennos, wus in progress, They represented tho popu-
lurvoice, und were nn index of public opinion. Theresoro the orutors
were in the hnbit of pupiug much rcgurd to the corone. See Brut.
8121111.

t)- snpati snmus, tanquam honoris unt custodiae ceusu: nem hoc
proprie est stipere, non simpliciter circumdare—Nec ille presidio, eho.
The text in this passage is very doubtful. The better MSS. give tion
illo pi·residiu; the common editions, nem illd presidiu- Gurutoui
proposed nec ille presidio, and was followed by Madvig. The double
non . , . ,111111 offerunt of the MSS„ nppeeriug strange und unusual,
occasioned the clmnge of the former into nom. Klotz, however, who
is followed by supfle end others, defends the first eron, pluced utthe
head of the clause, which the second rhetoricully repeated before affc-
runt does not destrov, us giving energy und emphasis to the lunguugo.
Inthe following clause else the negution is made prominent o third
time, by suying: nt .. . . terrren nc non timere quidem possimne, in-
stead of nt . . . . tomen etium non ttinere posennus. The sense of the
passage then is as follows: These guards do uot secure . . . ., 1 re-
peat, they do uot secure to the orator, that we here in the forum, end
before the tribuual . . . cen be so fearless, that we should not at least
haue some foer. To this view Madvig objecte, thet the position of non
in the beginning of the sentence, before the subject, end its rhetorical
repetition before the verb iu aseuteuee which flows so smoothly, eud
without excitement, is unusual und uncelled for. Resides, il the re·
peated nen is equivalent to a single negetion, aliquid, he renierlrs, is
barberous. Further, the sentence, ut ne non tenere quietern, «hc, is
so aunexed, es to require tlmt an intimetion of foer caused (nin a mind
relieued) should precede. llforeover, the connection of the sentence
with the preceding, and the continuation of the thought, is against the
non, which seems to heve arisen from the repetition of the uon with
usitato. Greduelly approachiug his subject, the orator does not siin-
ply affirm, Atque etium ipen illo presidio affermzt emtori aliquid et
animuin ejus per-turbent, but employs the form of affirmation which
arises from the negatiou of the opposite-Presidio. Compare §b 71,
96, 1013 de opt. gen. dic. 4, 103 end Lucan, Pher-sol. 1, 319, ff

Quis cestre timenti
Nescit mixto foro? gladii quirin triste initiantes
Jndiciurn insolitu trepidum ctrzeere corono,
Atque nuso medies perrinnpere milite leges
Pompeiano. reum clauserunt riguo Milonem?

-Pro templis cornibus. Templum Saturni, edes concordie, oedes
Vestae, templum Minervee, templum Castoris.

 

