144 nores.

pepers still scaled. Volturcius finding escape impossible, agreed¹ upon 111¹,
own personet sesety being insnred, to malae a run confession. His statements
were confirmed by tho interrogemur the chain oi testimony wvas rendered
completo and conclusive by the signatores in thc hnudwriting of the ringleed.
ers, which they were unable to deny. 'she guilt os Lentulos. Cethegus, end
seven others being thus established beyond a doubt, Lentulus ivus forced to
abdicate insolitae, and then along with the rest was consigned to tho charge
ot certain individuale oi high station who became responsible sor their appear.
enee.

These circumstances as they had occurred having been fullydetailed by
Cicero in his third oration, delivered in the sorum, a strong reactiou tenir
place among the populace, who all now joined in execrating Catilina aud de.
mandiug vcngeancc¹ from the well-founded conviction, that although they
might have derived proiit from riot or even from civil avar, yet the general
conflagration, which hed always formed e leading feature in the schemesoi
the conspiratae, must have brought ruta upon the humblest mechanics es
well as upon the wealthiest of the aristocracy. On the other haud, avigerons
effert ivas made hy the clients of Lentulus te excite the diega of the multitude
to attempt his rescae The danger appearing imminent¹ the senate was
called together on the nones (oth) ot December, the day so frequently referred
to by Cicero in aiter times with triumphant pride, and thc question was put,
What was their pleasure with regard to those who were now in custodyl
After an animated debete, of which the leading arguments are strongly and
pointedlyerpresscd in tho two celebrated orations assigned by· Sallust to Cesar
aud to Cato, a decree was passed, that the last punishment should be inflicted
according to ancient usage upon the convictcd traitors. Therenpon the consul
led away Lentulus to the subterranean prison on the slope ottho capitol, and
the others were conducted thither by the pieton. On the sels-seme night,
the high-bom patriciae Lentulus, amemberot' the noble Cornelia gens, was
strangled in that loethsome dungeon by tho common executionem anathemet
oi his associatos altered his sate.

While these things were going on et Rome, Catilius had gradually collected
a soreeamounting to two legions, although not above ene-sonna pert oi the
whole, orabant anon men, were sully equipped‚ the rest being ermed with
pilresy clubs¹ and other rude wcapons which chance presented. On the ap.
proach os Antonius, Catilina searhrg to encounter regular troops with this
metleycrowd, threw himself into themeritates, end, bycoustantly shilting
his ground and mcving ropidly in different directione, contrived to avoid e
cellisiorn while at thesemo time hc exercised and disciplined his followers,
whose numbers daily recreasset, although ho now refused to enroi slaves. mul-
titudes of whom ssoehed te his banner, dcemiug that it might prove injurians
to his prospects were hc to identisy their interests with what he tenned the
cause oi Roman irecdom. But when the news arrived of the disclosures that
liedtalrcn place in the city, of the complete suppression ef the plot, and oi the
execution ol the leading conspiratos, many who had joined his standard,
from the lovcol cxcitcment and the hopc of plunder¹ gradually slnnlr airay.
These who remaiued tirm he led into the territory of Pistoris, with the design
os crossing the Apconiues aud talring refugo in Gaul. una this movcment
ivea aritieipated by the vigilance ol Metellus Celer, who guarded Picenum
with three legions, and had marehed straight to the sont ot' tho hills thet he
might intercept the insurgents on their deseent.

Catiline, drereiore, at the beginning of the year 62, finding that escam was
cutoffin frent, while Antonius wer pressing on his rear, turned fiereely on his
pnrsuers ond detennined as a lest resomce to hazard an engagement. trusting
that⁴ ir successui, en Etruria would be thrown open sorthe maintenanoe at

 

