366 nonus.

Pago

103thnt Pliny asserts that he had himself read the name ol Ennius outhe
monument; bnt is not logi the in ἠ. (not perfeci indicative? jussit,
czeruen . . . . legi. This celebrated monument was discovered n. n.
1780, bnt contained no such statues as are spoken of in tho above qno-
tation.

28. nt iis laudibus, sc. quitus Ennius Scipionem oruneit. S„
who compares Fene 5, 13, 3: Cusus eninr gladiatorii oirrrilitndireeo-
que ecc, turn rationes iu en disprrielione c te collecte velebant me
rei publice penitus drffidorc; i. e. sinrililudiuespuc oe, quibus usos
eo.

292 lpse, qui laudatur, instead of the common reading ipsi, qai
terreantur. Ita hoc membrum refertur ad unum Africanum: in se-
quentibus alios nominat viros illustres ub Ennio in annalibus celebratos.

30. In eoelum , . , adjungitur. The two propositivus are placed
together without a conjunctiones is they wore not related to each
other3 but the relation is irnplied hy this very juxtaposition. The
soree is quum iu coelnm Ceto tollitur, torn, dee—Hujus = Catonis
Uticensis: proauus Ceto, Censorius. Hie is osten used osconterupora-
ries = qui nnnc vivit, in opposition to one of au earlier day. lt olteu
also denotes one present.

32. Omnes deniqne illi, &e These are the most celebrated
Roman generals in tho second Punic war: Q. Fabius illeximus Cunc-
tator3 Claudius Marcellus, the conqueror ol Syracuse, n. u. o. 5423
and Q. Fulvius Flaccus, the conqueror os Capua iu a. u, c. 543.

33. Decorantar = celebranturJ namely, hy Ennius in his au-
nals. '

Cu. X.-3 4. Rudinum hominem, i. e. Ennius, who says of him-
self, de Orat. 3, 42, Nes surnu' Ronzeui; qai favimus erite Rudini ;
from which, as lrom the passage before us, it appears thet Rodia was
not a foederato civitas. Cicero means to contrast its insignifiennce
with the splendor ol Heraclia, whence Archias derived his claim ol
citizenship.

36. In hac, i. e. at Rome itself. Ennius had obtained tho Roman
franchise through hl. Fulvius Nobilior, the conqueror ol the AEtolians,
a. u. c. 555, who had led a colony to Rudiae.

37. De . . . . civitate ejiciemnsl Is he had said e civitate, it
might have been supposed that he meent in exsiliare nrittere. Corn-
pare exire de etta, Loel. 4, 153 de tenuibus extorsionum ee urbe de-
pulsus, 2 Car. 1, 2. See Haud, Tar-s. iii p. 188.

38. nausimus, &c Nutu is not a ruere particle ol transition‚
bnt implies that what the orator is going to say is related in the way
of reuseniug to what preceded. The “shall we cast hiru ont ol the
number os citizensl” implies a strong deniol os this3 involving the
notion, gathored lrom what preceded, that the city would disgrace itsell

by cesting out one who tad conferred such honor upon it. Cicero

 

