256 nores.

ἕῖοετο says, Consules spero, &⁰4 and immediately adds, in order to

stimulate the consuls to act, thnt he (ns pretor), in case they decline,
will bring sorward the business of Gabinius’s appointment. For it ap·
pears to be going too sar to deny, as some do, that a praetor could in
the presence of the consul propose a decree. He must however sub-
mn, if the lriglrer magistrate intersered to prevent his design.

23. Impediet ,,,,, quo minus. P. G. 94 and 983 Z. 543.-
Iuirnicnm edictum. With reference to the preceding note, this may
mean an edict issued by the consuls, either cf a general nature to prc-
scribe the mode oi conducting business in the senate; or to define the
modo of procedure in reference to a single session. Cicero calls it
inimicum, as intended to trammel and thwart in his purpose the movet
of a measure, and declares that he will disregard it and persist in his
motion. In such a case nothing was left to the consuls but to inter·
cede, inheu the prrctor must yleld. Cicero could be bold, because the
grounds of objection to Gabinins’s appointment, which existed under
the Gabinian law, of which he was the monor, no longer existed un-

der the Maniliau law.
24. JuS, sepraeturae. Ernesti makes it the right which the tri-

bunes had tobe appointed legates, aud beneficium, the honorand rights
oi the tribuneship itself. Benecke understands jus of the right of the
people generally to bestow its henors en whom it pheses, and benefi-
cium of the saror thereby conferred. L. vr Jan rejects beth of these
opinions, and understands tho words of the right of the people to ap-
point Pompey to the command of tho war against the pirates. As the
senato were opposed to this measure, they, in rerenge for their defeat,
refused to confirm Gabinius as legate to Pompey. The overcoming
of this reneuge, therefore, hythe appointment ef Gabinius, will be a
triumph uf the rights of the people.

25. Intercessionem‚ sc. tribunorum. A compliment to the peo-
plc, to whose tribunes he was ready to defer.

26. Qui minantur, se intercessuros, aut, alii ut intercedant,
operam daturos.

29. Socius adscribitur, i. e. pro socio Pompeii in bello maritimo
hahetur, ejus gloriae particeps est. Cicero intimatas that the tribunes
had no just grounds for interceding, and reminds his hearers os Ga-
binins’s special and peculiar claims to the office of legate. Sec a} 57.

30. lirun bellum. Madvig, id buttem.

Ca. itu-32. Reliquum cst, ut‚.„viueatu1·. See Z. 6213
and compare b 27: restet, nt . . . . dicendum esso videatur.

34. Quercret. See P. 0. 415, s3 Krebs' Guide, 232 (4); Z.
505, Nota-Si . . . . poneretis, si quid eofectnne esset. Notice here
a double protasis without co-ordination or subordination of the one to
the other. In English we might pnt thern in co-ordination by the
conjunction and, bnt this is not allowable in Latin, whether they both

 

