414 ΝΟΤΕΞ.

Ξῖ) 7¹ H⁰¹¹⁰Tl⁸ amplissimi. The consulship.

9. Quam timida sit . . .. quarn sollicita sit. Is this the usual
order? See note on p. ui, line 1.

12. Fabulam. Henrsoy-which moy bo true or sulse3 limited
hero by the epithet fictura. The common text gives fabulam fulsura,
fictura, lcucru. And so Steinmetz und Klotz.

16. candidatorum. A candidato (candidatus) was so called
from his appeariug in the public places, such as the soro and Campus
Martius, besore his follow-citizens in a whitened tege—Iu recto factio,
i. e. etiarn quum recte iaciunt. Fastidire vero dicuutur eos, quos sibi
non satisfacere significant, nt hoc inodo ipsi plus aliis sapere videantur.

li. Hunc igitur diem campi, se. Martii. Above dics comitio-
ruru. Cl'. de Orat. 3, 42, itt.

19. Augusta. This word originally belonged to the langnage or
religion, und was therefore by Cicero osten joined with nanctus. Here
the allusion is to the coniitia centuriata, ot which the higher magis-
trates were elected, und to the solemn auspices which must precede.

20. Quum hoo, &c F or Milo was a respector ot religion—Clo-
dius the reverse.

21. Qui se, &e Klotz aud others: quin ne illc interfecto.

2⁴2. Regnaturum. Cf. chop. 28 fin. aud 29, 80.

23. [Audaciaeh Klotz: uuduoicn without l l: λογικὸν παρόραμα,
leve tamen, onducto retinentes ab oratore ipso commissum fateamur,
necesse est. Orelli. Andfinally hladvigstrihesthewordouten-
tirely. Quod caput est = which is the main point.

24· Impunitatis spem. He streugtbons his conclusion still sur-
ther, by showing that the hope of impunity lay ull with Clodius. This
may be considered the fourth argument.

25. rut preclari, as being done to benefit tho state ς necessarii,
as being in sels-desence.

26. contempserat. Clodiushad escaped the punishment ol his
violationes the mysteries of the Bona Dea by the corruptiones his
judges, eud avoided trial on the charge of violence which uiuo had
brought against him. He was also acensed os having committed in-
cest with his sister. Fures natura13 lieet of positive laws. Cs. Phil.
1³, 6, it: licere id dicimus, qued legibus, quod ruore ruojoraru iusti·
tutisque conceditur.

29. Quid plura disputor When I can appear to the personal
knowledge of some of my judges, that Clodius had resolved to slay
Milo. This evidence of the ouirnus of Clodius, srorn his denounoing
lllilo’s death within three days, constitutos thefifth argument.

30. Divina qiraedam sors· Pempey chose 360 ol tho best citi-
zens for the selecti judices. Alter the three days’ hearing ol testi-
mony, the sortitio judicum took place, by which the number was re-
duced to Sl, aud before the voting this number was still further reduced

 

