142 nouus.

taclr upon the magistrates had been meditated. Catiline was again rejected;
was sorthwith impeached of sedition, under the Plautian low, by L. AEmilius
Paullns; was forced to abandon the expectation he had entertained of sur-
prising the strong fortress of Proeneste, which would have formed an admira-
ble base for his warine operations; and found himself every hour more and
more closely coufined aud pressed by the net in which he was entangled
through the activity 01 Cicero. Driven to despair by this accumulation of
disappointments and dangers, he resolved at 0111 to bring matters to a crisis,
and no longer to waste tirne by persevering 11 a course 01 policy in which he
had been so repeatedly foiled. Accordingly, while he still endeavored to keep
up appearances by lond protestations of irmocenee, and by offering to place
himself under the control and snrueillance of M. Lepidus; of Q. Metellus, the
oraton or 01111, Marcellus, in whose house he actually took up his abode; or
even of CIcero himself 3 on the night of the oth of November he met the ring-
leaders at the dwelling 01 ht. Porcius Laeea, and after complaining of their
baelrwardness aud inactivity, informed thern that he had dispatched Manlius
to Etruria,Septimius 01 Camerinum, to Picenum, C.Julius to Apulia, and others
ofless note todifferentparts of ltaly to raise open war, and to organire ageneral
revolt of the slave population. He added that he was desirous to place himself
at the head 01 his troops, butthat it was absolutely necessary in the first place
to remove Cicero, whose vigilance was most injurious to their cause, Upon
this L. Vargunteius, a senator, and C. Cornelius, almight, undertook 10 repair
at an early bour the following morning to the house of the consul, to melre
their way into his chamber as if for the purpose of paying their respacis, and
then to stab him ou the spot. The whole of these proceedings were instontly
reported to their intended victim; the assassins, when they presented thern-
selves, were refused admission, and certain intelligence having been now re-
ceived that the rebellion had actually broken ont, on the 2711111 October, in
Etruria, Cicero, on the eth of November, went down to the senate, which, 101
greater security, had been summoned to meet in the temple of Jupiter Stator,
and there delivered his celebrated oration, “Quousque tandem abutere,
Catilina, patientia nostroe’ which parelyzed the traitor, not so much by the
vehemence 01 the invective, as by the intimate acquaintance which it die
played with all his most hidden contrivances, Catiline, who upon his entrance
had been avoided by all, and was sitting alone upon a bench from which
every one had shrunlr, rose to reply with dowu'cost conntenance, and 11 hum-
ble accents implored the fathers not to listen to the niulignant ealurnnies 01
an upstart foreigner against the noblest blood in Ronie3 but scarcely had lre
oomrnenoed when his words were drowned by the shouts of “enemy’' and
¹¹ parricide'' which burst frorn the whole assembly, and he rushed forth with
threats and curses on his lips. On his return honre, percelving that 111110 tuos
now no hope of destroying his hatcd foe. and that the strict watch kept
throughout the city rendered tumult and sne-raising diliicnlt if not impossible

. for the present, he resolved to suike some decisive blow before troops could

be levled to oppose him, and accordingly leaving 1111 chief control 01 affairs at
Rome 111111 hands 01 Lentulus and Cethegus, with the promise at the same
time to march with all speed to tlreir support at the head of a powerful army,
eet forth in the dead 01 night (etii-oth November), and af ter remaining for a
few days with his adherents 11 the neighborhood of Arretium, where he as-
sumed the fasces and other ensigns of lowful military command, proceeded
to the camp of Manlius, having previously addressed letters to the most dis·
tinguished consulas and others, solemnly protesting his innocencc, and de-

claring that, rnrable 10 resist the cabul formed among his enemies, he had
detennined to retire to 1111111115, that he might preserve his country from

agitatior and disturbauce.

 

