ἱ 336 nonus.

rna
9gbonus, optimus, clarissimum while tonte doctissimus, pereruditus,

moderatissimus, officiosus, dcc, are common. Though, therefore, to-
nus toruo and optimus toruo ore not oben teund, at least in Cicero,
Benecke conteuds, that us optimi uiri here would roser to putrietic vir-
tues, optimi lerninis is ullowahle and suitable in this passage as reter-
riug to moral and societ qualities. Doederlein conjectures, oiri optimi
nee tibi ignoti bortrinis-illoledieehot, &a Phidippus did; by re-
peating slauders os his own invention as it uttered by Blesamius. The
standers were: 1. That Caesar was disliked hy the people, and cou-
sidered e tyrent3 2. That the placing of his statue in the capitol
among those oi the ancient kings ot Rome had given general offence;
3. Thet he was not applauded at the public gemes and theatres.

35. Scribere solebat. Namety, trem Rome ; tor it would ap-
pear thet the enrbassy had reached Rome srom the kiug sometime
before thestrial earne on. Before scribere the MSS. repeat iuquit,
which Benecke, Soldeu, and Klotz retain, end Benecke reads te in-
vidiose tyrannum existuuori.

36. Statua inter reges posita. This statue is noticed by Suet.
Ges. 76, eud had in fact given public effence It was erected in the
capitol, where were statues ot the seven kings of Reme and of Brutus.
See Dion Cass. 43, 45.

ct. Plautii. The great, and those who enjeyed tho favor ot the
peopte, were commonly received with applause iu the theatro. See
ad Au. 3, tt. '

39. Blesamius ..... scriberet. Blesamius write that Cesar
vves o tyrant! Impossible. See Z. 530 and 552.

40. Multorum enim capita· Here enim occurs again with an
ironieal force, and may be rendered “perhaps’' See below, §34:
valde enim invidendum ert, dec, and p. Arelt. 5, 11, Est enim ob-
courum. From this descriptiones what a tyrant's acts would he, we
arete inter tb'ut Caesar was not a tyrant.—-Gopito, sc. abscissa, trun-
eata.

42. Armatis militibus refertum torum. For Appian, B. O.
2, 107, says that Caeser removed troni his person the praetorian cohorte,
which during the war hed attended him as guards, satisfied with the
civic attendants; and Veli Paterc. 2, 57, that when vverned to guard
an empire by orme, which arms had acquired, ho replied, litori se
quem timeri inette. See Plut. Ges. 573 and Suet. Ges. bt-Quae
.. . . sensimus, ee . . . . non vidimus. Benecke and Klotz, with the
Erf. MS, omit eu, and thus the quae refers to the preceding, aud he-
longs to both sentiemes and uidimus, and the two clauses are antithet-
ieal, without the adversative conjunction.

43. Iu civili victorIa· He has in mind such as those ot itarius
andsuu„

44. Solus, inquam, es, . . . . cujus ceciderit. Z. 561 and 563.

 

