onnrron ron r. nnnrns nmo. 433

41. Quod si loeus, dac. Had Milo been granted an audience. 1ζέ

But Pompey‚ as Asconius informs us, would not allow Milo necess to

him.

l. Peste. Clodius. 12ss

3. Consiliis tnis. nnn, therefore, though the advantage was
mine, yet the obligation was also yonrs.

4. In periculo capide, i. e. in periculo deminutionis capitis me-
diae, ior exile would have been the pnrrishment, had Milo been ocn-
demned. See note on p. 85, line 1, sor the meaning of capnt-Ad-
jntanz. Candidates were assisted in various ways by their friends;
viz. in oanvassing the electore ol the city and the country, doe. cf.
Quint Cic. de petit. cerzsnlct.

5. Se habore . . . . sperasse. Krebs, Goth, 4023 Z. ens-Te
teo beneficio. This is a true, though not an obvious ground of friend·
ship. We all take a lively interest in our own work ; e. g. tho success
of one whom we petroniae.

t. rnnesisset. Like a deep-rootedtree. Hence euelli. The
common text is insedisset.

9. Nae iste· Z. 360 Note. Digito demonstrat Milonem.

10. Qui ita natus est et ita consuevit. hlanutins: qni hoc
hahet et a naturaei a consuetudine, nt otium salutemque patrire re-
bus omnibns anteponat Gt eh. 14, init. The connection shows the
relation (ts oltra πέφυκε); namely, so as to act the patriot-Mngne-
When the young Pompey‚ n-n. o. 674, returned victorious frorn Africa,
he was received as a second Alexander ; the dictator Sulla went out
to meet him, saluted him with the title os stagnus, and directed his at-
tendants to join in the salutation. Cicero, od Art. 2, 13, ridicules this
snnramo ol Pompey.

ll· antestaretur. Simpliciter est: te moneret, nt meminisses, se
convenire te voluisse, et de sna innocentia, allorum autem perfidia
docere, lltatthie. Thisls a technicol ivord for “to eall on a per-
son to be witnessto an arrest.'’ If the defendant, when summoned
to court, would not willingly follow, the plalntiff might eall witnesses
and bring him by force. The witnesses were necessary to testify to
the unwillingness of the defendant, and to jnstify the soree used. The
witness was asked by the formula ticet antestari, and il he assented,
the plaintiff touched his ear to impress his duty on his memory. See
Hor. Set. 1, 9, 75. Milo, as Cicero exhibits it, had used only lawfnl
force, to suppress the violence of thewieked sor the welsare of the
good, consequently for Pompey’s welfare, to whom he had been ever
grateful and true: this ha calls Pompey to witness Schultz: ante
testaretur-Quod nunc etiem feeit, tametsi neque tui conveniendi
potestas est faeta, neque abit apatria sedin jndicio se sistit

Cn. XXVL—12. Vide, quamsit varia. See note on p. 97, line
1. The mention ot banishment led Cicero to revolve the various turns

37 i

 

