258 nores.

nnnsingulare, incredibile, with which Cicero below varies the expression.
He introduces further variety in tue construction, The first three are
followed by quoru aud the occ. c. inf, and the second three by quant
and ut with the subjunctive. We may also notice the shill with which
justuess of proportion between uniformity and variety is aguiu oon-
sulted for iu the ausrvers to the questions-Adolescentulum,privatum.
See noto ou p. 54, line 2ss 3 aud compare Vell. Pol. 2, 29, 1.

15. Corrfiecre = comparere, contrahere, conscribere, to enrot,
levy.

18. Α senatorio gradu. Tho age at which a person might be-
come a senator, tuas probably atthis period 27. Pornpey was at this
tirue only 24.

20. Bellumque in ea. Klotz reads, iu ec provincio.

2³. Equitem Romanum triumphare· On his retum from
Africa, he demanded a triumph, which inas at first refused. Pompey
however persisted, and tuas at last allowed a triumph at the ago of 25.
Plutarch says, it would have been nothing strange if Pompey had
been a senator heloro the age tired lor it3 but it was avery extraor-
diuary instance othonor, to lead up a triumph before he was a senator.
And it coutribnted not a little to gain him the affections of the multi·
tude3 the peoplo were delighted to see him, after his triumph, class
with the equestriau order.

25. visendam. Visere, as the frequentative of cidere, is strong-
ετ, aud eqniualeut to studiose cidere. Its meinung of ‘¹ goto see,'⁵ is
also involved. Therefore, Eun: non modo vidit, sed etiam studiose
et frequenter spectavit. Klotz reads omnium for omui.

26. Quid tam inusitatum, qunm ui· So below, qnid torn
singulare, queue cl, aud qnid tum incredibile, qnam ct. See Z. 623.
Abone, with crearent, praeter cormuetudiueru, aud inauditum, the con-
struction is the accusative aud infinibus—Duo consules. They were
D. J utrius Brutus aud Mam. AEmilius Lepidus, Λ, u. c. fiir.

28. Bellum maximum. 'l'he Sertoriau or Spauish enar.

29. Nounemo. [lues

31. Pro consule, i. e. as proconsul, with proconsular powers.—
L. Philippus. Acelebratedorator. Cf. Brut. 47, 173. Cos. Α. u. c.
663.

32. Pro consulibus„ Here is a honmot, consisting of a play
upon words, by which the incapacity of the consuls ol that year is in-
timated. Cicero, who also mentions it iu the lith Philippic, 8, 18,
skillully makes use of it here, as though it had been uttered simply
to glorify Pompey.

33. Rei publicae bene gereudoe, i. e. belli rei publica censa eus-
ccpti bene gerendi.

36. Legibus solutus· By the lez annalis, r. u. c. 574, it was
decreed that the consul should be 43 years of age. The age requisito ν

 

