404 eorus. '

fflwllylssying and murder. It is a detailed descriptiones arobba-ma.

numere—Adversa These iu froni.

37. Hic. hlilo.

38. Ilii, qui crant cunr clodio. It would appear that some oi
Clodius's party attached the carriuge in frout, to prevent escape. Milo,
on quiltiug the vehicle, began to defend himself against their assanlt.
Clodius and the rest of his party, wlm had permittod the curriage to
pass them a little, seeing lililo thus engaged, rau iaci (they were 011
their way to Rome) to attach him. Bnt this diii not require them ull.
The remaindcr (purtim), therefore, with whom Clodius happened to
he, fell in uimine attendants of Milo, that were in tbe roaros tho
carriege (qui post uuir, and therefore nearer the Clodian body), by
whom Clodius ruas killed.

42. Ex quiens qni animo fideli, &c The orator, with con-
summate slrill, preparas tho minds ol the jndges, by the mention of
sufficient and almost necessary grounds for the murder, sor the re-
ception ef the main fact, and in the very mention of the murder adds
aerei Milonis for oratorical effect, to show, what was the principal
flung, that not hlilo, burins slaves, committed the murdse-Animo
.. . . prasenti. Cf. Terent. Pharin. 5, i, 64: Animo virili praeeati-
que ui sis, pern.

Η- succurrere prohiberentur. Z. 544 and 607.

115 1. Fecerunt iu. A periphrasis and eupbcmism.

2. ilion derivandi criminis causa, Not with the vlew of lay· '
ing the blame elsewhere

Cu. iii-r. Vi victa vis. Quam manime cum Ciceronis con-
suetudine congruit, utverha abeodem origine ducta aut similibus lite-
ris scripta una iu enunciatioue conjungantur plura.

8. Nihil dic0,&c. This line of arguerent was urged by sonae,
and adopted by bi. Brutus in a defence of Milo, which be ivrole out
aud published, as if actually delivered. Quinctil. 4, 5, notices the in-
genuity of Cicero ia enumeratiug, while he professes to oinit, ibe ad·
varrtages likely to acerne from the dcath of Clodius.

ll. si id jure, &c If the principle of seli-desence is inadmis-
sible. For potuit the common text gives posset.

12. Nihil habeo, quod defendam· Z. 562. Klotz: quid de-
feudare.

13. Ratio, &c These souutains of law are appropriately refer-
red. F er “ reasou’' properly belongs to those who have improved their
powers} the uncultivaied are the slaves of “ necessity ξ’ natieus are
subservIent to “customss' while the lower animels are directed by
‘¹ mere instinct-⁷¹ Klotz omits ei before ratio.

17. Quin simui. Without at thesaure time deciding. Ζ, 538.

le. Quod si ita putasset, optabilius ....iuit. Not
suisset, although we insucb cases useapeeutial, Z. 519 u. if he

 

