326 novas,

Pam
90 cogitaret Cesaram unum esse in erbe terrarum, qui judicare de se

(Deiotaro) etiam absente regnoque se spoliare posset3 elii vero judices,
qnos absens reformidaret, nulli erant.’' Orelli. Benecke, Steinmetz,
and Klotz read vindicare. With this reading, is refers to Phidippus,
aud seis the accusative after· vindicare, eiso, referring to the same.
Siipfle aud Madvig read indicare. And tlrut too, notwithstanding he
(Phidippus) was the ouly man who could glve information in Rome
against him in his absence. For had Deiotarus been present, he would
have been able to refuto the charges of Phidippus Siipfie regards se
as a gloss which might easily have arisen from the preceding syllable
te.

28. vinciret· Klotz: vinxerit.

30· Scire. Not scisse: for they still knew, aud it is the same as
pure illi sciebant, at dicis.

Cn. vrit-al. Reliqua pars. The first part of the charge was
the attempted assessinatiou of Cesar, the rest oi it argued only dis-
affection towards him: 1. In attending too much to unievorable ru·
mors aliout Caesar, 2. In levying a large army against him. The
latter point (with which he connects the charge of holding a corres-
pondence with one Caecilius, a Pompeian, as also of supplying Caesar
arith inferior cavalry) he answers first in tlte remainder of this section.
-Regem semper in speculis fuisse. Speculum iu quo specimus ima-
gisem, speculo de qua prospicimus, Varr. 5, 8. Esse in speculis =
to be on the watch, to observo. So ia Verr. 1, 16, 46 : auae tornines
ia speculis sana· observant, queritadmodum sese uiresquisqee ues-
tram geret. Cf. p. llfurea. 37, 79 ς ed Ars. 9, 103 od Ferat, 3.
Seet25.

32. Α te ariimo esset aliene. Z. 470. Benecke and Soldan
read, esset aniane.

34. Eas..ouibus..,posset=tales....ut iis, dae. Ζ. 556.

36. Ab excursionibus et latrociniis. After these words Mad-
vig gives hostiani.

38. Antea. Before Caesar deprived him of pert of his dominicus.
When Cicero was proconsul ef Cilicia, Deiotarus brought to his-ussist-
auee thirty cohorts of infantry and two thousand cavalry. Ad Ait.
6, i, ia-Eeigeas. Absolutely small or trifling3 but perses rela-
tivelyso. Hence its propriety here This is said te meve Caesar’s
pity.

39. Caecilium· Q. Caecilius Bassus, a Pompeias, uotieed, ed
Feta. 12, 183 and Liv. Epit. 127. He spread a repert that Caesar
had been defeated aud killed iu Africa, aud seized the governmeut oi
Syria, which he held till the arrival of Cassius. Cicero, to suit his
purpose, speaks of him here coutemptueusly, as also ed Fam, 12, lH;
but Plril. il, 13, he says, Est Q, Caecilii Bessi, privati illius pai·
censenserint praeferi viri, robustas et victer exercitae With

 

