356 noras.

{ffozeua aud all the citizens of allied towns which had not yet become

runrricipin, should bo expelled srorn the city. In consequence of this,
many strougers got tlroir nonies entered in tho lists of municipia, iu
order to he able to pass os Roman citizens. lliele etiem, pei peregri-
aos urbibus uti prohibent cosque eatervninent ; at Pennas nprztcl pe-
trcs inosti-es, Papias nuper. The Schol. Bob. says: “ Reus sactus est ·
Archias lege Papia, quae lata iuerat ad eos coercendos, qni teurcre ct
illicite civitatem Romanam usurpassent.” But, according to Cicero,
its effect vvas usn vrbis prohibere peregrinos, which, he observes, is
sone inhorruerant. ,

11. Eorum municipiorum. Rhegium, Locri, Neapolis, dac,
were mado rnarricipio (from foederatae civitates) hythe lavv of L.
Caesar. See od Fam. 13, 30. For irrepserint, Klotz, Benecke, stu-
reuburg, and Nauck read irrepserant.

12. Se....esscvoluit. Ρ,0.149,(1); Ζ.610.

1³. Census nostros requiris· Scilicet: est enim obscurum,
&c Census is the conutiug and estiurating the Roman citizens ac-
cording to their property: this ivas usually done every five years (las-
tranr); but srorn n¹ u. c. fita-fisi there had been uo census. Scilicet
(= sci licet) properly calls upon him vvhonr vve address to know that
which rue are going to state. Compare with our present passage acl
Quint. Frotr, 1, 3, l: Ego tibi irascerer? tihi ego possem irasci?
Scilicet, to enim rnc afflixisti, tui rrze inimici, teo nze incidie ec rien
ego te misere perdidi. Iu both these passages it calls attention to the
trnth and certainty of a salse statement, irenieolly asserted to be true.
After S.

14. Proximis censoribus. Cn. Lentulus Clodianus and L. Gel-
lius, Α. u. c. 664, in the consulship ol nl. Licinius Crassus aud Cu.
Pompeius Magnus.

15. Apud exercitum fnisse, ¹‘ to he with the orrrtpss’ is said of
nou-military persons attending the general sor any reason⁴ This uias
in the hlithridatic urar, which Lucullus carried on from 1. u. c. ast-687.

16. SuperIoribuS. L. Marcius Philippus and 111, Perperna,
n. u, c. limi—Geni eodem precatore. L. Lucullus from n. o. c. 666-
fiis, was in Asa, as quaestor and proquaestor, with Archias aud his
brother M. Lucullus.

li. Primis, i. e. the first aster Archias had declared before the
praetor his rvish to avail himself of the law, that put the sreedom of
the Roman city ivithin hisreach. These were L. Julius Caesar aud
P. Licinius Crassus, n. u. o. 665, the consuls being Cn. Pompeius and
L. Porcius Cato-Nullam populi perterre esse censoru. Because it
was not yet five years since the census of n. v. c. 662, and because
they had been elected censors only sor the purpose ol distrihutiug the
allies‚ vvho had obtained the franchise, into eight or teu new tribes. It
isnot probabis that Archias gave in his name ou that occasion 3 bo·

 

