ORATION son a. arcemus. 30⁷

with sordue, and describes the neglected appearance of those who werepflgafi

in affliction and distrcss

41. (anemis. Benecke, Klotz, Soldan, and Madvig: Nam
quodvis.

43. Si fraterne, sipic,si aum dolore· Nouae tho anaphora,
by which, in tho first member os this sentence, the conjunction, and in
the second member, the predicate is repeated, It is osten the case, in
animated discourse, that a ward which is common to the connected
members of a sentence is repeated, by which the place af the copula·
tivo conjunction is taken, und a kind af asyndeton is formed, Besides,
iu this sentence the chiastic arrangement of fraterne, pie, curn dolore,
and lauriana, pictae, germanitas, should be noticcd.

a. Essent. concoenare. 83

4. Hune splendorem. This is the proper epithet of the equestri-
an order, as, majosty of the peopla, and authority os the senate. Be-
necke and Madvig retain the reading, ornnem hauc Brocchorum do-
matra.

5. L. carridium. By a tapsus memoria Corfidius was here
mentioned, though previously dead. Cicero requcsts Atticus (13, rr)
to be careful to have the name erased frana all the copies3 which,
however, was not affected.

6. Veste mutata. Sordidate. No less than twenty thousand
knights changed their garb in the case of Cicero.

Ἷ. Tecum suerunt. This did not require them tabe actually in
Caesar’s camp. It was enough that they did not jain Pompey. Be·
nacke, Klotz, Saldan, and Madvig: uiros, qai tecum fuerunt.

8. Requirebumus· Missed, felt annoyed at the absence of.
Theresore their deserts towards you are crrhanced by their being the
objecta of the hatred and threats af the Pompeians.

9. minabantur. Benecke and Klotz: ruinalramar. By aon-
mdli we nray suppose Pampey, Lentulus, Scipio, and Fannius are in-
tended, nat Cicero who strongly censuras those who threatened the
neutral. Theresore Mirabantur is preferable— Tuis suos. Το those,
who by their neutrality are proved to be your friends, preserve their
own.

10. Hoc. Your consideriug all these your friends who did not
appear against you.

Cu. xrs-ra. recum . . . . fuisse, i. e. domi remansisse

15. Fuisset futurus. The common text is saturus suerit, and
so Madvig. Soldan: faeritfnturas. n conditional sentences, which
are expressed hythe subjunctive of the imperfect ar plupcrsect, are
made to depend upon a tenso of the present, iu the leading sentence,
they are not subjected ta the consecutio temporum, bnt remain un-
ehanged. In the periphrastic conjugation, however, tho subjunctive
of the perfect takes the place of the subj. of the plnperfect‚ atter a

 

