440 noras,

&ss found iu connection with familia, which then embracee the persons

iu the potestas of the paterfamilias, especially the slaves, aud pecunie
includes the rest, particularly lifeless property. This signification snite

our passage.
ll. Patent‚....nota sunt tenenturt Res manifestes
continet verbnm putent, conscientiam omnium et testimouium ea uigui-

ficant, quer notu aurit erunibus, convicta sunt probationibus, qit'ce te·
nentur. Klotz omits baec afterfingi.

12. Servorum exercitus. With reference to the rufe, by which
slaves were ercluded from military service. See Dioneae. The
servi publici, it would appear, were used as rewers in the marine. The
jus rnilitic was a right inherent in the civitot. It was a Romen
proverb: Quot servi, tot hostes. Cicero often speaks of Clodiusb be·
ing surrouuded with a band oi slaves, ch. 14, 36.

18. cervicibus. Ζ. eat-Per- τηε ot uentre Some read per me
unierunt, Seezesfi.

19. Pudor, Pudicitia. See note ou p. 92, line 15. Pudor,
αἰδώς, ejus est, qui male facere reformidat, non ejus, quern male factu·
rum pndet3 ejus pars est pudicitia.

20. Esset vero timendum· Ironical. Nonqurerit illa orationis
foena, sed earn vim habet, ut ostentationem id fuisse timendum:
sententiaque ita significata statim argumento confirmatur, otene enim
quisesl,&c.

27. Srrmmornm imperatorum, Marius, Sulla.

29. Mandate hcc memoriae. He loretells that they will attrib-
ute every future blessing to the removal of Clodius, and he bids them
note that he now said so. Matthiae notices that the legitimate order
is abandoned, which would ho the following: Mundute hoc rnernurioe,
etsi sperem inulto eos . .. esse virtores, introeo in iis singulis voe exis·
timoturos. Α

34. Hoc ipso summo viro. Poinpey, who, appointed to bo sole
consul, had passed some salntary laws against bribery and corruption¹
aud attempted to reform the state.

35, Legibus et judiciis constitutis. Klotz: legibuset institu-
tis constitutis ,· aud below, line 39, donrino for liotrrr'ne. Thevariation
appears to be in each instance a typographical error, as no authority
is given,

38. Ea, quie tenetis, privata· See ch. 27, itt—Dominonte.
b 78, imperium tlte si nectus esset.

Cn. xxm-41. Non timeo, &c Having now detailed ott the
enormities of etilo, Cicero apprehensive that the feelings of the judges
did not accompany him in his exaggeraticns, resolves to give thern a
palpable proof of their abhorrence of Clodius. This he does by sup·
pesiug him recalled to life3 the bure thought astonnded them. Ney,
he adds, Pompey vvonld net recall him. Therefore Clodius was a ty·

 

