onarrou aea arua ueteranus, 337

3. Irr victoria ducimus. Benecke and Klotz: ia ciet. sincerii&

victimae-Qut vivit in regno, i· e. who is the subject of a despotic
monarch3 opposed to rios liberi.

4. Nam de statua· Num is rrot used here for simple trarrsition,
but to introduce a trifling matter hardly worth mentioning. Schultz
gives jura, as proposed by Ddderlein.

5. Quum tam multas vrncat. Besides the one spoken of ae
set up in the capitol, where the statues of the kings and Brutus stood,
there were two others before the rostra irr the fornrrr, which being a
much more conspicuous (clarior) site than where the royal statues
were placed, ought to excite odium still more, if odium there were-
Rcspecting the erectiori of these and other statues to Caesar, see Dion
cass.44,23.

6. Enim· The turn is ironical = noa valde inridendum est.-
Tropeie Quae majorem illi laudem afferunt, quum una statua—Ic·
eidirttus. Soldan aud Madvig: braidemus.

ἴ. Nam si locus. Nam here=deindor “ Again if the place,
Μ’ Eludit magis, quam confutat objectionem, per fallaciam, ut lo-
quuntur, accidentis. Non euim invidebatur illi statuae, qnod esset
claro et omnibns conspicuo loco posita, sed quod interreges. At orator
ita refellit, quasi propter solam loci claritatem statua Caesaris in iuvi-
diam vocaretur. Benecke and Klotz: nullus locus est, dec.

8. De plausu. His answer is threefold: l. Yon never courted
popular applause, therefore no wonder if it is not bestowed3 Ξ. Men’s
minds were so astounded by your cxploits that they were incapable cf
raising their voice3 3. The people omitted tt, because it was trite and
unworthy of yon.

Cartili-1³. Nihil, &c Before so consummate arhetorician
as Caesar, it was useless to have recourse to the ordinary rules, one of
which is to conceal every appearance of art. Cicera, therefore, affecte
to make a display of art to conceal it more effectually.

14. Extremam . . , r partem. The peroration, the fittest place
for discussing the rnost important point-Id antem aliquid. Compare
p. Lig. Τ, 22: is tuanen aliquis Ligurius nou fuit. So Terent. Andr.
2, 1, 14ε Id aliqrrid nihil est. Cicero, wishing to reconcile the par-
ties, has first to show that there is uo cause for resentrnent on either
side. With regard to Caesar, he assumes that what he has urged is
enough to allay lris angry feelings (noa . . . . aretuo, ae illi tu succerr-
cees); it remained to show that he had no grounds to suspect that
arry such were lrarbored by Deiotarus. His reasons are: 1. Deiotarus
is sensible that what he lost he deserved to lose, nay, that Caesar was
cornpelled to make the varrquished assist him in rewarding his brare
associatae aud to this no reasonable man could object. And if :intio-
chus the Great bore similar treatment with eqnanimity, much more
should a petty sovereign like Deiotarus. Besides, he had the support

29

 

