invnooocrron. 141

with himself for the following year, having formed acoalition with him for
the purpose of exornante Cicero, T he votes of the peopte, however, in some
measure deranged these calculatione. Cicero end C. mitonins were returned,
the former nearly unanimously, the latter bya small majority over Catilina.
This disappointment, while it increased if possible the bitterness ot'his animos-
ity towards the dominant party among the aristocraey and tho independent
portion of the middle ranlrs, rendered him more vieorous in the prosecution of
hisdeeigue. Lerge sums of money were raised upon trie own security, or on
the credit of liis friends; magazinesof arms and other warlitro stores were
secretly forrned3 troops were levicd in various parte of ttaty‚ especially in tho
neighborhood of Fresutec, under the superintendenee of C. Manliae, an expe·
rienced commender, one of the veteran centurione of Sulla (Dion Cae.
xxxvii. 30), and numerous adherente were enrolled from the mostdesperate
classes, including not a t'evv women of ruined reputation 3 attempta also were
made in various quartere to gain over the slaves, and it was determined, when
the critical moment should arrive for an open demonstratiom to eet tire to
the city in many different places at the same instant, and to staughter the
well-disposed portion of the population in the tumult. Meanwhile, in the
midst of these extensive preparatione, Catiline again (oa) stood candidate for
the consulship, aud used every etfort to get rid ot Cicero, who met him at
every turn and thwarted alt his beet-contrivcd machinatione. Nor was this
wonderful, for he was countennined from a quarter whence he apprehended
no danger. One of the most high-born, abandoned, but, at the same time,
wealr and vacillating, among the conspirators. was a certain Q, Curius, who
had been expelled from the senate hythe censore on account ot the int'arny of
his life. This man had long consorted with a noble mistress named Fulvia,
who appears to have acquiredcompleto control over tris mind, and to have
been made the depositary of all his secrete. Fulvia, alarmed by the intelli-
genee obtained from her lover, divuleed what she had learned to several of her
acquaintances, and, through them, opened n correspondence with Cicero, to
whom stre regularly communicated all the particulare stre could collect¹ aud
at length persuaded Curius himself to turn traitor and betrayhis comrades,
Thus the consul was at once put in possession of every circumstance assoon
as it occurred, and was enabled to keep vigilant neten over the conduct of
every individual from whom danger ivos to be apprehended. By imparting to
acertaiu extent his fears and suspicions to the senators and moneyed men, he
encited a general feeling of distrust and suspicion towards Catiline, and bound
firmly together, by the tie of common interest, all who having property to lose
loolred forvvard with dread to confusion and anarchy ς Antonius, whose good
faith was more than doubtful, he gained over by at once resigning to lrim the
province of Macedonia, white he protected his own person by a numerous
body of friends and dependente who surrounded him whenever he appeared
in public. These preliminary measurcs being eonrpleted, he now ventured to
spealr inore openly; prevailed upon the senate to defer the consular electione
in order that the state of publicanam might be fully investigarem and at
length, on the nst of October, openly denouneed Catiline, charged him
broadly witlr treesou, predicted that in six days from that time Manlius would
talre the field in open war, and that the esth was the period fixed for tlre mur·
der of the leading men in the commouwealttr. Such was the consternation

produced by these disclosures, that many of those who considered themselves
peculiarly obnoxious instantly fled from Rome, and the senato being now
thorouehly roused, passed the decretum ultimum, in virtue of which the con-
suls were invested for the time being with absolute power, both civil and
military. Thus supported, Cicero toolr such presentiens that tho Comitia
passed off without any outbreak or even attempt at violence, although an et-

 

