onanron non urin nianrnrnu new. 229

subordinately to the rest of the sentence, is sometimes put in cecidi-X?

nate relation with the leading thought, notwithstanding it does not pro·
ceed from it; as e. g. this passage does not follow from the preceding.
Cicero, however, could boast of having preserved by his activity as au
advocate many citizens to the state, who now could defend ite inter·
ests. Especially was this the case before his praelusum-Neque . . . .
et. Z. eae-Al iio = talibus3 therefore the subjunctive defende·
rent. Z. 556. ’

12. Causam = id in quo utilitas vestra posita est3 interest So
correo rei publicae, b 43 pop. R. vera caasa, b 53.—Periculie = trials,
prosecutione Pericula in Cicero is a standing expression for judicia
publico, or criminal prosecutious instituted against private individuale.

13. caste integreque versatus. These words refer to the cus·
torn of conferring gifts and favore upon lawyers and oratore to induce
thern to defend even the worst canses. To put a stop to this ebuso,
the Lea Cincio de donis et muneribus was passed, al n. c. 550, in
the comitio tribute, having been proposed by the tribune Cincius, and
supported by Q. Fabius Maximus. It prohibited advocates from re-
ceiving sees or gilts froin their olienis Ceste and integre ere else·
where found together. They both denote purity and integrity of char-
acter, but particularly freedom from cupidity and corruption. Dc Fira
4, 23, 63: coste et integre vivere; id. l, 9, 30: incorrupte atque in-
tegre judicare ; pro Seni. 43, 93: horno casini or non cupidus-Ju-
dieio, as expressed by acts, in electing him to the office of praetor.

14. Propter dilationem comitiorum. The higher magistrates,
consuls, praetors, and consors, could only be chosen at the comitio een-
tnrietu. The comitia might be broken off sor some informalityiu
taking the auspices, by a tempest, by the intercessioni of a tribune, or
for other reasons. The grounds of postponement were more frequently
political than religious. Iu this instance it arose from the serment iu
which the city was kept by the promulgation of the Gabmian, Ros-
cian, aud other laws, end the assembly had been twice adjourned be·
fore completing the electiou of the entire number of praetors, which
was then eight.

15. Praetor primus. These words do not mean that Cicero was
¹choseu praetor· zirborrus, as of higherranlr lliau either of the other
praetors, but merely that he ivus the first choico ol the people nt three
successive trinls. The particular duties of the prretors were alter their
electiou decidet] arnoug themselves by lot. To Cicero fell the questio
de pecuniis repere›nolis-Centurio. See Bojescn's Ronian Antiqui·
ries,p.33‚o10; nridp.49‚§li,

H. (eniri aliis praescriberetis. The approbationi which the
poople had expresscd ol liis course by conferriug their honors upon
him, set it up es an example lor others to follow.

18. Honoribus mandandis. Compare note ou p. ³0, line 3.

20

 

