eutition ron T. anulus MILO.

any mark of a lacuna. Peyron ohserved the want of connection, as 116
also tho absence of five lines from the 'l'urin paiirnpsest, and from
Quinctil. 9, 2, 54, supplied the last half of the gap. From other
sources he attempted to restore the rest.

15. Α se inventam. S. Clodius was a libertinns3 therefore the
malicious observation that he was the auttror of this law.

16. De nostrum omnium—. An instance oi the figure carnia
πησις, Z. 823.

lt). Et adspexit me· Phil. 2, 30, 76, At adspicis nze, ct
quidun, divideris, iratus. The connection of these words with the
preceding is still loose3 but the langnage is animated, and the abrupt-
ness not out ofplace. “But see, he has cast such a iooir on mo¹ as
he uras accustomed to wear, when he threatened all evils to every-
body 5⁵⁷ sc. in the tribunate oi P. Clodius, when Sextus was tho will-
ing instrument of all the injurias inflicted on Cicero.

20. Omnibus omina. Klotz: uranie erunibus—Linum curie,
dicit, incendium sive flammam significans. Jocum en ambiguo recte
vocant Mauut et Abram. Lumen eninr curie significare etiam po-
terat clarissimum senatorem, cujus dignitate inureretur

Cn. xlii-2 2. Sexte, with the tono of furniliarity, expressive of
irony-Cujus = qnia mei.

23. Punitus es. A deponent verb. Cf. Quinctilii, 3, 6.

24. cruentum, when it should havo been washed and anointed.
See ch, 32, 36.

25. Ejeeistr. But it should have been placed in the atrium in

state, and after eight days, have been carried ont with ceremony.
Cadaver ejecisti and abjecisti are ehosen to express the carelessness
aad contempt with which he treated the corpse of his patron.
' 26. Imaginibus· See note on p. 131, line ra-Ezseqniis. A
following to the grav03 funeral processioa, which peirrpu also here
signifies, and is therefore only amplificatory. The processioa crossed
the forum, when the leatus funebris was set down inirent eithe rostra,
and the laudatio pronouuced. It then moved to the piace where the
body was brnned without the city. The ashes were gathorcd into au
urn (condere), which was placed in tho tomb (coruponereh Nothing
of this respect was shown to Clodius-infeiiciasirnia tignis. An ai-
lusion to the distinction between arhor-as felices arrd infelices in the
(Etruscan) pontificat lauguago. An aiter inseiis was tehen for a
gallewa which, it may be intimated, Clodius deserved. Tha body of
Clodius, however, was burned with the benches, tables, aba, ot the
senate-house, which he emphatically calls infelicissime. So Catul-
lus devotes the writings of a sorry poet, infelicibus ustilanda tignis.

27. semustilatunr. Cf. 32, et: Phil. 2, 36, tlt—Nocturnis
cunibus. Ex Homerica formula rivum οἰωνοῖσί τε πᾶσι, quam Grreci
postea, Latinique manuue frequentarunt, detraxit aves, addiditque noe·

 

