raray.

THE OLASSIC FRENCH READER,
ron monnone saoneres

Balacrus or THE warch allidant, thothar ΛΝΒ honhart

ΒΥ atam DE FlVAS.

With a Vocahalary, French and English, of all the Words aad idioms

contained in the Worlr. By J. L. J arvern
One volume, lame. osseo peges. Priee sl.

“This work embraces selections from the writings ot all the literary periods, aad specinrens
os the various styles os the nrost distinuuished writers, lt is a well-digested hook, convenient as
a manual sor students, since it unitos the advantagcs os a reading hoolr, lexicon, aad gramtnar.”

“The ‘classic French lleadery eonsisrs of sereeriens srom the standard prose and poetical
writers ol France. Each selection thrrns a complete subject, andis os sufficient length sora
single lesson. Thc choico os pieces is rnadc from every period os the Frenclr literary history;
so that the student has an opportunity os forming an acquaintance with every species os French
composition. The selections arc snitahle sor a reading boch—from lloliere, Saiat Pierre, llan-
tesquieu, Chateauhriand, Madame de Stadl, Rousseau, Teneion, Voltaire, Bossnet, and others. in
prose, in poetry, from La Fonteiae, Florian, llerangcr, J. B. Rousseau, llacine, aad other
enunent writers. Short sketclres os the lise os each are vivon, which are not without their use.
The vocabulary Β embraces aad defines every word used in the boon, not only in its particular
acceptator, hut in its pritnary significauce [significationl' The idiomatis phrases are noticed.
Occassionally foetantes are added by way ol' explanation, Any one who will make hirnsell
{amiliirlrhwith all tire pieces in the hook, will he prepared to read werke in every department ot

reno terature.

INTRODUOTION ΤΟ Τέῗῧ FRENOH LANGUAGE:

GONTAINING

Falla, Solent Tales, Renarlrahlo laets, amusing laetitios, etr.

A D I C Τ Ι Ο Ν Α RY
or aaa aaa tttoens aaaasnaaan ntro auenrsrr,

By ALAIN DE FIVAS, Member of several Literary Societies.
One neat vohnne, lQmo. Priee 50 cents.

This work has passed through several editions in England, aad rapidly t'ound its way asa
class-hook into the most eminent public and private seminaries.

The pieces contained ia this volume comprehend a great variety os subjecta, aad are garrerally
osa lively and familiar style, the phrases will serve as elementa os conversation, aad enable tha
student to read with sacility other French hoohs.

ln the Dictionary at the end, is given the meaningr os every word contained in the hook.

The explanatory words are placed at the end os tlte hook, instead os at the soot of the page3
hy this nrethod learners will derive considerable henefit.

Though this work is designedly sor the use os schools, the author has horne in mind, that
many os the learners os French are adults, therefore, while it is adapted sor youthsul students,
aa endeavor has also been made to make it aceeptahle to those os more advanced age.

nv Panenaawow.
Α law attitulari

OF THE

FRENCH AND ENGLISH LANGUAGES.

Pana Ι, FRENCH AND ENGLISH. Ι Pana ΙΙ, ENGLISH AND FRENCH.

Bascd on the recent Dietionary of A. Sernes. with many valuable Additions
aad hnprovements.

One volume, large Bvo. wnisonn with ¹⁶ enters German Lexieeal’

23

 

