THE ORATION FOR Q. LIGARIUS.

INTRODUCTION.

Licinus was the name of three brothers, who lived in the time of the civil
wars between Ciesar and Pompcy. They were of Sabine origin.

Q. Ligarius is first mentioned in Α. u. c. 704 as legate, in Africa, of C. Con-
sidius Longus, who left him in command of the province, while he went to
Rome to become a candidate for the consulship.

On the breaking out of the civil war in the following year, L. Atius Varus.
wim bad commanded the Pompeian troops at Auximum, and had been obliged
to tly before Caesar, arrived in Africa, of which province he had been formerly
propraetor. into his hands Ligarius resigned the governmerrt, although L.
rEiius 'Tubero had been appointed to the province by the senate; and when
Tubero made his appearance oii' Utica shortly afterwards, be ivas not permit·
ted even to land. Ligarius fought under Varus against Curio in tbe course of
the same year (n. u, c. 705), and against Caesar himself in 708. After the bat·
tle of Thapsus, in which the Pompeian army was defeated, Ligarius was ta·
iren prisoner at Adrumetum. His life was sparcd‚ but he was banished by
Caesar. His friends at Rome exerted themselves to procuro bis pardon, but
were unabletosucceed at first,notwithstandingthe intercession of his brothers,
of his uncle, Τ. Brocchus, and of Cicero himself, who had an audienee with
the dictator on the 2311 of September, a. u. c. 708, for the purpose, dieantime,
a public accusation was brought against Ligarius by Q. [Elius T uber0, tha
son of L. Tubero, whom Ligarius had united with Varus in preventing from
landing in Africa. He was accused on account of his conduct in Aiiica, and
lris connection with the erremies of the dictator. The case was pieaded bo
foreCoesar himself in the t'onrm. Cicero defended Ligarius in the following
speech, in utnon he maintains that Ligarius had as much claim to the mercy
of i'aesar as Tubero and Cicero himself. Ligarius was pardoned by Caesar, who
was on the point ot'setting out for the spanish war, and wlio probably was not
sorry to have this public opportunity of exiiioning iris usnai nreroy. The
speech which Cicero delivered in his defence has been nruch admired. Liga-
rius, however, feit no gratitude for the favor that had been shown him, and
cagerly Joined the conspirators, who assassinated Casas in 1. u. c. Tio.

Appian speaks of two brothers oftlre name of Ligarius, who perished in the
proscription of the triumvirs in A. u. c. nt (B. C. iv. te] ; and in the following
chapter, he mentions a third Ligarius, who rnet with the same fate. Now, as
Cicero expressly mentions three brothers of this name, Q, Ligarius must have
been one os those who were put to death on this occasion. Dict. G, ond R.
Βίας. ond otptt.‚chio1os.

The oration of Q. Tubero against Ligarius iu this trial, was still extantia
the time of Quinctilian (oi. io, 1, 93). But after his failure in this cause, ho
abandoned the profession of oratory, aud devoted himself to the study of the
civil law.

 

