332 norae.

ἒξ 14. saltatorem avum. If your grandfather had been a profes·

sor ofdancing, which he was not, yet ought his years to have exempt-

v*ed him from this railing accusation. For even his landable pnrsnits,

bis military exercise and hersemanship are given over3 much less is he
fitted sor dancing.

15. Pudoris pudicitiaeque. illodesty and chastity. Impudene
ab animo, impudicus a corpore laborat.

18. Sed bene ut armis . . . . uteretur. The construction ie
varied from sed berre orariis , . . equis utendi, which would accord with
satiandi. Hersemauship was the first branch of a princely edocation.

19. Exacta atate. Eight years before, when Deiotarus assisted
Crassus, he was an oid man; and Dion Caso. ealle him ὓπεργήροντα,
when he aided Brutus.

20. Haerere in eo. Cf. Her. Germ. 3, 24, 54: Nescit equo ru· .

dis Harereingenuus puer. This probably occurred in Pompey’s
camp before the battle of Pharsalia Benecke and Klotz: terere oe·
nez fo eo posset.

21. Hic vero adolescens, i. e. Castor, who was iu Cicero's army
in Cilicia, when hc was carrying on iver, A. ur c. 703, against the Ci-
lician monntalneers, and in Pompey’s iu Greece. Therefore his ac·
conrplislrmeuts were well known to Cicero.

24. Pater. Saocondarius, the son-in⁴ law of Deiotarns3 Cicero
keeps him before Caesar’s mind as being once as great a foe as Deio·
tarns,

25. Quos concursus. What crowds were collected to look at
him! Cicero designedly leaves their motive in collecting dubious, but
the following words sufficiently show that it was to ridicule him.

26. In illa cansa. Pompeii. As Cicero mentioned the father,
so he takes care to set forth the aiacrity of the young Pompeian, of
which he bad himself been witness.

27. concedere = cedere, to yield to.-chm uero exercito, &c
The reading here is doubtful. Orelli’s agrees with Madvig's, except
that ot. gives fuissem instead of sui. Benecke from the Erf. bis.
reads, Quum aero exercitu amisso ct cupiditate post Pharsalicum
proelium suasor fuissem territorum uon ponendorum, &c Klotz:
Quuru cero exercitu aruisse, ogo, qui pacis auctor semper fui, post
Pharsalicum cutem proelium suasor fuissem crinorum noo deponen-
dorum, &c Pompeyhad about 15‚000 men killed, and more than
Quoto taken prisoners. Caes. B. G. 3, 99.

29. objiciendorum. Without making any terms. This word
shows his eagorness to terminate the civil war. He uses the same in
writing to Marcellus-Ad orcam auctoritatem. As Cicero could not
prevail on Castor to desist from war, owing to his military ardor and
his wish to satisfy his father, we may infer that both father and son
were determined foes of Caesar

 

