onitrron ron rna eom leonins. 357

roge

cause, having resided at Rome lor a long timo, he might hope to be 100
admitted among the old tribes.

18. Non . . . ac tantummodo Iudicat. Er, etque (or) are some·
times used wlrero wc should use lrut; in connecting opposite notions,
the tirst having a negotiare with it. “But rorter’ is “uc poties:”
less commonly ct petius.

19. Indieat cnm . . . . ita se Jam tum gessisse pro cive. Ito
= “eo sor‚”or ‘¹ oe suclr,” ty tlre ocrp sect os tleis enrolrrrcnt among
the citizens at the census. It refers tho rcader to the preceding state-
ment: ‘⁶ Id,pno resederim, irrterdum exprimitur corbin proxime orr-
tccedentibrrs nel uiro neruiue, quod io prioribus eminet: qeerncdrno-
dnm Greci progredienti participio otlp'mrgnnt reliquero scatentium
per· οὕτως, Id, quod dicitur lroc porticulo restringitur ed cem aetio·
perri, que rnodo est expresso: unde fit, ot intelligemus eo ipsol’
Hand. vol. iii. 482.

20. Quem tu criminaris, dac, i. e. iste Archias, quem. Mat-
thioe, who reads que tro, tre, considers this an instance ol ettroctiorr
for quidne. Klotz first takes que tn crimineris hy itself, and consid-
ers the following clause an instance of epexegesim i. e. ol an explan-
atory statement (hero an explanatory statement ol the substance ol
the charge) that is appended to a previous amartion, without any strict
grammatical coherence. He adds, it wonld all he plain if it stood in
full, iis temporibus pure tu crimineris, quum dicio curn ne ipsius qui-
dem, &c Nauck also adopts qrroc, and rendere ‘¹ in those times du-
ring which he, according to your accusatione? dac. Madvig and Stii-
renhnrg (ed. tt) rcad quenz.

22. Testamentum saepe fecit· Roman citizens alone were al-
lowed to mahe a will, or be made heir ot u Roman citizen; a prool
that Archias considered himself to be a Roman citizen (prejudicio).

23. In beneficiis . . . . delatus est. In dermietis deferri =
in iis, qni beneficia merentur, delerri3 “ to be recomnrended as one
deserving rewards.” When a Roman proconsul or propraetor returned
from his province, and gave in his accounts, dae, to the treasury, he
also delivered in the names of persons whom he wished to he recorded
as benefactors to the Roman state. In Cicero’s time these recommen-
dations must he made within thirty days alter the rendering ol ac·
counts. Ferri. 5, 203 Bato. 28. This did not constitute aclaim to
any immediate or particular reward, hut was an honor, and, in case
of any danger, duc„ an advantage, as entitling a person so honored to
the good offices of the Roman government. It appears t'rorn this pas-
sage that only citizens prere so recorded. hldbius compares τοὺς εὐερ-
γέτας τοῦ βασιλέως (Herod. 8, 85), and the stippentur of the Syracusans,
Xen. Hiet. Grec. 1, 1, 26. So when hlordecai discovered the plot
against the king's life, his name “wcs written io tlre lrool: ef rte

 

