onsrron noa nine perornans. 313

See note on p. 71, line aa-Aecedii, ut. When the sentence is con-{³¹³5⁸
ditional, accedit is always followed hy rit. Without a condition we
sometimes find cecedit ut, but more commonly accedit qriod. With
quod au added circumstance is prcsupposed as real, with or it is con-
coived as just doveloping itseis = praetcrea fn, ut. See Z. 621, 622.

13. Alterius crudelitate. Because his grandson Castor was
the accusor of his grandfather·.-Atteriuo indignitate. Because his
slave Phidippus had appeared against his master.

14. Crudelis castor. So also Benecke, KIotz, Steinmetz, aud
Soldan. Madyig and Schneider defend Crudelem Castorem, on the
ground that ae dicim requires the same case os the substantive or ad·
jective before as after it. Cf. p. liiii. §332 vivo Milone, ne dicam
consule. Hunc accusatwumo sequentibus ortum esse arbitror: atque
omuino initio orationis exclamatio minus apposita videtur. Orelli.

15. Nepos· The sou ot his daughter, who had married Saoeon·
darius—Adduxere. The subjunctive expresses not merely some ad-
ditional characteristic, but the conception end feeling ot the speaker.
Ζ, 554.—Adolesoeoticeque suo terrorem = terrorem asna adolescentia
s. a se adolescente, profectum. For young men at Rome found it a
ready way of gainiug commendation, to accuse the magistrates, to
whom, therefore, they were in some sort a terror. De Off. 2. 14.
Benecke omits ei aiter intulerit, referring to Z. 765.

la. Debebat· On the indicative, see Z. 518.

18. Servum· Phidippum medicum. In Rome physicians be·
longed to the servile condition.

19. Α legatorum pedibus· In company with whom be had
come to defend his master. Servants are said to be od or circum pe·
dea domini, i. e. pedissequi. Verr. 1, 36, 92: habebor circum pedes
homines formosos et litteratos.

20· Fugitivi. This is said contemptuously of Phidippus, since
when sent withthe other ambassadors to defend Deiotarus, he had
abandoned his cause. His object, in speaking so contemptuously of
his servile condition, is to make the accusation of Deiotarus appear
still more unworthy, and to lower aud weaken in the minds of tho
Romans the regard iu which Phidippus stood in his own country. On
the repetition of dominum, compare od Aa. 5, 2, l: qaum Hortensiae
ueniret et infirmas et tom longe et Hortenses,- p. Seii. 054: ge-
ner, ot Piso gotter.

22. OS, quo impudentiam prre se ferebat-Quum verbo audiebam.
These words are omitted by Benecke and Soldan as a gloss on quam
osoidebom. But Madvig very justly remarks, quam apte utriusque
sensus offensio commemoretur quamque numerose membra orationis
cadant, nemo non videt.

23. De fortunis communibus. For who ean he saie, if slaves
are permitted to turn informaret

27

 

