306 noras.
Ρ ga

8³2 ready indebted to Caesar for his own, to urge the pardon of another,

than for that other· to hopo for a pardon. But this being done, Caesar
would hardly forfeit the glory of his elernency, gained in pardouing tho
one, hy refusing tho same pardon to the other.

21. 'I'ui necessarii. We might expect tuorum necessariarum,
but the construction is conformed to the relative qui, instead of to the
antecedent cornui.

Cu. §rr-24. GratiosioreS. Of more intlueneo with you—Vul-
lus. What casel Z. aba, (b). Soldan with Steinmetz here contende
for preces, as below. votius dixit pro praece quia, qni precantur, sol-
licitudinem, demissionem animi, moerorem vultu pra· se ferre solent.

25. Sed quam illins. Klotz reads sed paco illius causa, pro
qua,&e.

26. ltaque, &e Accordingly, you do not, to be sure, deny your
own friends any favor, as the preceding remark (neque te spectare,
quam tuus esset necessarlus) might lead a person to suppose. So far
from that, you are above measure liberal to them; still Isee (sed vi-
deo tamen) that the causes, &c

27. Beatiores. Beatus qui multa bona possidet. Cicero does
not mean that they were lrappier than Caesar, but as we say, ‘¹ better
off,” “ wealtlrier.” Cesar evas so genereus that ho left himself ina
worse situation than the reeipients os his bounty. This accords with
the account of eurimedusae: nihil deiiegure quad deuo dignum
esset.

28. Fruuntur. Benecke, Klotz, eordan, and Madvig: ,ih-uantur.

31. In Q.. Ligario conservando· Si Ligauum conservaveris.
And this introduces the ease of Ligarius. He here reasons syllogisti-
eally. Thus· the major (Vidi snitu, dre.) is shortly: Just grounds
(causus) for interference in the suppliants usually avail with Caesar.
The friends of Ligarius have tho justest grounds (minor). Therefore,
&a Iu establishing the minor he is able to enumerate all the friends
of Ligarius who are iuterested in his fate. And this he proceeds to do.

32. Tuqnidem....sed. zaraia-aaut. Scenotoonp.22,
line2

33. Hoc. Causas rogantium.

34. Sabinos. Ligarius was of Sabine origin, and it was usual sor
the whole people of a district to appear at Rome in defence ofa patron
or countryman. So the Campaniam appeared ia favor of Cicero, 011
his return from bariemone-Tibi· probatissimos. They had afforded
Gasar an asylum during the proscriptiones Sulla, and he may have
tried and proved their valor in his legions.

36. Nosti optime homines. Benecke, Klotz, Saldan, aud Mad-
vig from MSS. read optimos. ,

at. Τ. Brocchi . . . . lacrimas squaloremque. Brocchus was

the uncle of Ligarius. aquator, the gerb of manuring, is often joined

 

