350 uorns.

{gisae Z. 6223 and on the construction of antecellere, Z. 387, infin. and

417.

22. Cunctaque Gracia· Klotz, &nienburg aud Nauck: cirna-
taque Gracia-Adventus. Z. 92.

23. Ut samam . . . . superaret. His arrival was eo much talked
os, that the expectation ot the inan and the desire to see hini sur-
passed the reputation os his taleriis, whereas his arrival and the ad-
miration shown to hini surpassed even the expectation with which
his arrival had been looked tor. Cs. C. (ap. hlacrob. Sar. vi. 2) ol
Cato: Coiitingebat in co, quod plerisque conuersatione ruajora om-
nia re quam sarna uiderentur-‚⁵ id quod aaa scope euenit, ut exspec-
tatio a cognitione, ouius ab oculis vincerentur.

25. Italia . . . et in Latio. Italia (= the country of the Itali)
is here = Magna Gracia. ‘¹ That nonio [Italia]l in very early tirnes
was a uatioual oue iu the south, and was not extended to the inore
northerly regions until the Roman siiray had united the Peninsnla into
one state. The latter [Theophrastus] continues to nrake a distinction
between Latium and Italia in his History of Plauts.” Niebuhr. lt
was especially aiter the Punic wars that Greek civdizatiou began to
bo introduced into ltaly.

27. Propter tranqniIIItatenr rei publicae. The seditious at-
templs ot Saturninus had been suppresmd, a. u. c. 654, and the Soeiai
strar did not break out till a. u. e. 664.

28. Non negligebantur. Ζ. 754. The expression is, ot course,
less strong than colebantur. 503 Orat. 11, 43 ε Nostri [= hia Roma]
miuus student litteris, quara Latini-Terentiei et Rhegiai et Neapo-
litani. These states, on account of their very origin, niust have been
fauorably disposed towards the Greek poet, and endeavored to honor
hirn with their best presents—namely‚ the franchise. Rhegium and
Neapolis were then only conscelerate towns3 they were made rrzuaicipal
towns by the lea Julia iu the first year of the Social war. But it is
urged that Tarentum could not have been only a consederate town,
sineeacoleny was settled there, a. u. e. 631. Vell l, 15. Orelli
seems to think the Tarentini ueteres (as distinct troni the Coloni Te-
rentiui) are meant. “The orator knew well enough that the laets
here mentioned did not avail Areliies hi a legal point os view3 ho is
only paving the way, as it were, ior the sect of his receiving the tree-
doni ot the city at Heraclia. Thus the Scholia Bobiensia: Utiliter
praeparavit od carosanujarn pridem hane Archiam poeticae facilitatis
gratio celebrem a plurimis Italia nobilissimis populis ia acinorum
ciuium cooptatum. Quod riiruirum argiuueato esse debeat, etiam
Heracliensibus anper adscriptum, robustiorem jam sarna et ingenii
dignitate urajorern.” Κ,

30. Aliquid is here put with some degree of emphasis ; all, who
were able to form seme accurate judgnient of meu ot taient.

 

