THE ORATION FOR THE hlANILIAN LAW.

-.-..

INTRODUCTION.

hirminmarus, hing of Pontus, had been cheched in his plans os conquest and
aggrandizcmcnh by L. Sulla, as early as a. u. o. eoo, hythe battles es Chaero-
neia and Orchomenos end compelled to restrict himself to the dominicus
which hc held before the cornrnerrccrnerrt of thc war. But he had hom this
tima improved every opportunity to carry into effect his long-cherished hopes.
Therelore, in the years oti to 1573, hc had renerved the war, and defeated the
Roman general, qurena, near Sinope. In trah, while the Roman arms were
occupied in Spain with Sertorius, in Italy with Spartacus, while too the pirates
who int'ested thc coasts ol Cilicia and lusauria, increasing in boldness atter tho
downt'all ol' Carthago, caused alarm along the sea and coasts ol the ltomarr
empire, Mithridates thought the most t'avorable moment had arrived sor carry-
ing his plane into execution, and directed his tirst effert to grasp Bithynia,
which, hy the will ol king Nicomedes, was to become a homan province. ln
pursnit ofsimilar aims hc songht to gain his son-in-lavv Tigranes, lring os Ar-
menia, and commenced asecret correspondence with Sertorius in Spain, sor
the purpose os bringing about some concert otaction. The consuls of the year
aaa, L. Licinius Lucullus and rll. Aurelius Cotta, marched against Mithridates
from ltome, and although Cotta lost a battle on land and sea, Lucullus was
afterwards so success-hu on land, that he not onlysignally defeated ⁴llitbridutes
inseveral hattles and drove him t‘romhis kingdom, but also several times routed‚
in the years 685 and fiat, Tigranes, who had received and protected Mithridates
in his llight. Thus Lucullus probably would have completely frustrated the
last effortsof the combined hings, il other circumstances, oi' which he was
partly the cause, had not prevented. Lucullus had received his army in a
wretched and insubordinate condition, but as a slrillul general he had brought
them under subordination thus lar by strict discipline, until his insatiable ava-
rice, which he sought to gratily at the expense ot' the legions, excited tho
minds of the soldiers against his severity. lt was thus easy t'or his enemies in
ltomc, who, without his knowledge, had their agents even in his anny, to
soment insurrections in his legions, and in this way so to paralyze his energy,
that Mithridates was enalrled again to establish himselt' in Pontus. Thus· his
opponents iu Rome, at the head os whom was Pompei, succeeded in euecring
his recall t'rom the command ol the army, A. u. c. oct. He was succeeded by
Μ’, Acilius Glabrio, consul ot'thisyear, who, however, showed such incapacity
and so little activity, that Mithridates disgracet‘nlly deteated two Roman le-
gates, Fabius and Triarins. At the same time also the pirates honr the coast
ot Cilicia and lsanria, against whom servilius Isauricus ll. Antonius, ¹aud
Caecilius Metellus Creticus had t'ought, had made the most during acanus
upon llomnn territory and property, and caused serious losses to the public
treasrrry as well as to private individuale. This state or' things led tho tribune,
A. Gabinius, a hiend ot' Pompey, to propose a law that some one should be
clothed with extraordinary powers lor three years lor the purpose ot' putting

 

