cellit tal lolio.

O. JULIUS OAESAR’S COMMENTARIES

ΟΝ TIIE

dachic wlit.

With English Noies, Criliccl and Explanatory3 A Lexicon, Geographical aad
Hislorical Iudexes, dre.

ΒΥ Rev. d· Α. ΒΡΕΝΟΕΗ, Α. td,
Editor ψ Αηιοῖᾱέ Series uf Greek aad Latia Boots,⁵’ ele.

One lrandsome vol. lituo, with biap. Price st.

The press of ltiessrs. Appieton is hemming prolific of superior editions of the classice used
in schesis, and the volume now before ue we are disposed to regard as one of the most beautiful
ehdh' ”’ damougthemall‚bothinitseditiuganditsexccution. TlrcclessicLatininwhich
the gr ⁷ al aud the greatest writer of his age recorded his aohievements, lias been sadly
corrupted iu the lapse of centurieS, and its restoration to a pure aad perfect text is a work re·
quiriitgnice discriminatiou aad souhd leuming⁴ The text which ΜΓ. Spenccr has adopted isthat
of Oudendorp, with such variatious as were suggested by a careful collation of the leading critica
ofGermauy, The notes are as they should be, designed to aid the labore of the student, act to
supersede them. In addition to these, the volume contains a slrctch of tlte life of Cesar, a brici
Lexicon of Latin ivords, a Ilistorical and a Geographical Index, together with a map of the
country in which the great Romam conqueror conducted the campaigns lte so graplrically de·
scribes. The volume, as a whole, however, affpears to be admirably suited to the purpose for
which it was designed. Its style of editing an its typographical execution reminds us of Prof.
Lincoln’s excellent edition of Livy-a work which some months since had already passed toa
second impression, and has uow been adopted in mest ofthe leading schools and coilegesof the
country-Prottueeestamar.

“The type is clear aad beautiful, aad the Latin text, as far as wc have examined it, extremely
accurate, and woalryer'rhe work of tlte great Roman cotumauder aad tristorian. No one edition
has been'enrirety followed by lix. Spcncer. Helias drawn from Oudendorp, Acholium, Lamaire,
Oberlin. Schneider, and Giani, lits notes are drawn somcwlrat trom tlte abore, aud also thom
vossius, Daries, Clarke, aud Stutgart, These, together with his owu corrections and notes, aad
rur excellent lexicon attached, render this volume the most complete aad valuublc edition oi
Oaesadsmmmemartes yet published-Albaoy Spectator.

“By his editions of hmotds Greek and Latin Books, as well as by his edition of the New
Testament in Greek, illr. Sperrcer haswou for himself an enviable reputation for scmrd arrd
thomum scholarship, which will suffer no diminution by his recent work now before us The
uetes which ΜΓ, Speacer has added, arejudiciously selected aud arranged, from the best sources
which are indicarcd in his modest prefate. A Latin English Lexicon, aud Historical and Geo-
grapmeal luderes make the volume a eornplete ntanual for the student; which the neat typo-
graphy aad binding wid render it a pieasure for lum to use.’'

“The Notes of lin Spencer wc are disposed to regard as highly judicious and conducing
largelv to apro or understandiug of thc context. He does not seem tc hove thilen into the
condrion error o crising free translations of whole passages, tlrcreby ufsording a positive licensc
to laziness, nor is he so nteagre as to discourage dre student, who is really striving after a corn·
petent knowledge of the author's meaning. The space, which is occupied inthe old editions
with the Ciril, Alexandrino and African Wars, rs ltere tlcrotcd to a sufficient voeabulary of tlte
ianguage aad a good bide'x tc the Notos. The book contains also c' map oftltecountry described,
aad some diagrams of that puris asinorum, the bridgc across the Rhine.

‘² The public are much indebted to the Appietons, whose enterprise aad good taste have brought
forth so many excellent editions of standard text-booksflh-Lz'ternry World.

“In this new and improred edition of Cesads commentarios, llir. S cncer has given another
roofof his souud and ripe scholarship, and ofius zeal aad industry iu that line of labor to which
Ee hasbeen providentially directed He has ennehed this volume with a body of excellent and
judicious English notes, not roo extended, aad with a critical aad explanatory Lexioon: to which
are appended two luderes-one Historical, the other Geographical, It is most appropriately
dedicated to that accomplished scholar of whom Now-York may well be proud, Guarau Ο,
Verterat-'uro LL.D.¹'’—Prctesluat Ohurclimau,

“ A rery hadsonte edition of Oaesarls Commentaries which will bc readily introduced-into
aeolis 3εοῖἒὲᾓέοώ lt is published oa clear paper, with fair type, aad presente au suerting

 

