394 noras.

P ce
fflarraro that whatever severity there might bo iu this onaetnronl, it

would hu terupored bytho tirurness os tho judges3 the selectiou ol
whom, t'ronr thr¹ nrost illustrioris orders, aud particularly tho respecta-
bilrty os lrirrr who presides, prored iucontastahlp, that Pornpey's solo
metire was a regard to justice, &e This Cicero considers sullicicnt
to clear the third prmimlicinm, aud he now proceeds to the deleuee
itsels, ch. 9.-Et dc rc ct dc correo. Do ro ol* the qrrestion el suet ς
do conso ol the question ol law. Ch. 29 init, tlre opposition et the
law and the suet is thus expressed: Quod igitur· ia correo preferendam
ost, id agoniae lrio; qaod tormentis irrrronirc nis, id soterum: Gt.
od Foru. ἒ, 6, 5: Nunc titi onmem rein otqae corisonr rncqnc totam
commendo nique trodo.

10. Tulit, sc. rogationem. Pornpey, on being appointed eousnl,
prohibited tho wearing ot' any lriud os arrns iu the city, aad carried a
law de ei, iu which ho made special reference to tlre murder connnit·
ted on the Appiau read, to tlre buruiug os tho curia, aud to the assanlt
ou the house os tlre interrex—Facto osset . . . . occisor osset. Iu le-
gunt sorruulis nihil frequentius quarn istud imperfectum eorrjuuctiri
vel aliquoties repetitum. The reading occisas est orsuit is irradrnissi·
ltle‚ siuee essct doulrtless belongs to the rogatio.

ll. Nempe nt attereretur. See note on p. 76, line 42.

13. ,u paret. Paret is au old torruinns judicialia. See Gaius
4, 473 l'crr. Q, 12, 31: si judicium sit cirrsnrodi: L. Octauius ju-
decerto: si porci, &e Cs. Vct-r. 3,22,55, and 28, 69. Irrthe
present passage condemnaro aud obsoleo-e are near hy, as in the for-
nmta giren hythe praetor to the judex: si paret .... condemno, ri noa
porat . .. . obsoleo.

lt. ln confessione faofi :quarn (etsi) tactum concederetur.-
Jnrr's . . ,. dofcrrsionein sao-cipi poesc. See ch. 3, h 8.

15. Quod nisi vidisset, posse absolvi. Quod ad antecedentia
relatum explicatur verbis posse absolui, rrhi nos acorpc adderemus.

17- Salutarem . . . . literam . . . .tr·istern. The initials ot ob-
soleo and condenrno. There was a third tahlet, not mentioned here,
which was marked N. L„ i. e noa liquet. Each judge received these
three tablets irorn the praetor, and when the rote rvas talren, tlrrew ona
into the arn, which iras provided separately sor the different classes of
jadgessenators, equites, aad tribuni aerarii. Aa Q, stol, Ξ, 6, 6, Ac-
cording to the tahlets the praetor prououneed his sentence ς when C.
was the prevailing number, oidetrnff‘eciaec. Ver-r. li, 143 stood. 9, 47,
extr.; when Α. predorniueted, aon eidctm· ,· and when N. L. tuas the
rote the decisiorr was adjouraed or a corrrpronrise affected. Cicero
here means tosay,that Porrrpey‚is he had considered hillo guilty,
would not here appointed a trial, since aeconio, by virtue of the
power couserred upon lrirn by the senate, have punished lrlrn himself.

21. Defensioaem :potestatem sese detendendi.

 

 

