aouuru onnrron noarnsr erumna. 219

Pare
31. Summam ordinis consiliique, “i. e. locum primum 1ηῑετ43

ordines et jus de ro publica deliberandi ae decernendi: exquisita Lati-
nitate.” Erricsti.—Ito....ut=quidern....ocd, Sapra Rosa.
r} 72: Ita civitot, dum possunt at driccre animaru dc coeio
queant. hl. See Z. 725.

32. Quos cx multorum antrorum diSsensionc, &c The
quarrols alluded to are those that arose from the changes introduced
os lato years in the judieial departrneuts. In a. u. c. 632, C. Gracchus
had deprived the senate os their judicia} power, arrd transferred it to
the equites3 Sulla restored it to the senate in [5733 and L. Cotta, iu
tie-r, had made another change (that would naturally satisly neither
the senate nor tho knights), and confidcd it jointly to the senate, the
equites, and the tribuni aerariir-'l'lrongh this arrangement had existed
sor some years, yet Cicero spealrs os this day as the day that had
united the senate and the equites, because it was (wc must assume)
the first day of their cordial reconciliation3 the common danger having
made both serrators aud knights cooperato zealously with Cicero
against Catilina. But differenees brohe out auew, particularly iu
a. u. c. 693 and fiel. See Q Phii- 8, ra.

35. Confirmatam. Ci. ad Aa. 1,15: tuear, ut passum, illam
a me conglutinatam concordiam.

39. 'l'rIbuuos crarios. These were officere who assisted the

quaestore (from u. e. aa, the aediles) iu the management ol' the treasury.
Their principal duty was to collect each from liis tribe the puy os the
army. They were plebeiaus. Madvig, Opusc. ala. p. 242, seq, eu-
deavors to show that there roas no connection between the hilarii

(erarii of an earlier date, in the sense above explanatam the tribuni
ararit os the Lex Aurelia, who are here intended. His lang-uage is:
Gradnm aliquem et distinctionem civium universorum certa aliqua
norma saetam, quemadmodum equites censu separabantur, iliud nomeu
tribunorum aerariorum notare debet. His riow is that the tribuni cra-
rii of this period were those who possessed a property qualificatiou
nent to that of the equites, and that they were so called iu the law of
Cotta, from some resemblance in this respect to tho earlier tribuni
arani, who, he supposes, were private meu, whose property, ot' a pre·
seribcd amount7 mede them responsible sortire trust reposed iu them.
The arnouut ol property required in either period is not known-Scribas.
The scriba were public natones, and received a salary. From the ab
exspectatione sartis and thc Sericum, we learn that it was deeided
by lot to which magistrate each should be attached p: ipso die eonce-
aeruat ad arai-uon scribe, ut sortirentur aspicia, qui scriba esser
cornutio, qui tribuni plebis‘). “Iu Cicero's tirne it seems that any
oue might become a scriba or public eta-t— by purchase3 and, couse-
quently, as freedmou aud their sons were eligibie‚ eud constituted a
great part of the public clerks at Rome, the office was uot highly es·

 

