334 nouus.

Fuge

93 uota on p. 69, flue 19Δ Such is Cresar's authority, that eppe-elerico is
implied in irrepueitp being permitted.

9. le, quorl intus est· Namcly, the slaves who reside iu our
families. Spohcncontemptnously.

10. Evolere = iu vrrlgus proferri, scd cum animi levitate, Cf.
coronare, Orat 15, 475 crnrrrpere, Plril. 2,39,1[]o; Lat. 21, 76.-
'Fit 111 dominata, &c lt makes aslave of the master, amaster of
theslave.

11. compara, How changed! Oratores. How unlike what
they were! He proves both by comparing Domitius aud Castor.

12. Gn. Domitius. Ahenobarbus. He uras consul, 1. u. c, 658,
wilh C. Cassius Longinus, aud censor with L. Crassus, the orator.
Scaurus had refused to choose him among the augure. He, therefore,
iu return, accused Scaurus of not duly attending to the worship of the
Penates iu. Lavinium. Plutarch reversos the names iu this transac-
tiou3 but Valerius Maximus, 6, 5, corroboratos Cicero's statement, and
adds, quern populas tem propter alies virtutes, tare lrec rrerrrr'ne li-
tertias et consulem et conserere et pontificem rrrorirnemjecit. Per-
haps he owed his poprrlarity no less toa law hy which he gave the
pcople a voice in the electiori of priests. Sco Asconius, 111 Seuer.
p. 21, ed. Baiter, who says, ebselntesest Scauros quidem, red ite,
rrt e tribes tribubus detruderetur, e xxxii absolveretur, et 111 eis peu-
ce purete ieter derrreetiooem et ahsolutionem interessent,

14. nr. Scaurum, sc. AEmilium. He was consul, 1. n. c. 639.-
Prr'rreipem civitatis. The title ofprz'rrceps venetos, which the eeusors
had six times couferred on him, he here varies by sayiug, princeps
civitatis-Ie judiciem prpuli. The judicie populi were those in
which the populas acted as judiees. They were originally held in
the Comitia Curiata, aurl subsequently iu the Centuriata aud Tributa.
See Dict. Antiq- J euax.

16. Prehendi hominem. Benecke, Klotz, and Madvig: oppre-
latret-Hominem, for the demonstrative pronoun referring to the pre-
ceding serves, with the accompauying notion of conlempt, which may
be derived from its frequent use to denote oue of the servile condition.
P.>Tutt. ᾧ 19: cari . . . . deo lrerrrr'rres; p. Qer'rrct. 19, 61: lrorrriuere
Quinctii ; aad iu the language of the jurists, without any connection
with the name of the master3 e. g. lrorrre Stichos, tornincrrz emere.

lintri Scaurumque. Not orique Scaurum. Z. filiii—Vide,

qaid intersit. A siruilar antithetical passage is found iu Vera 5, 37.
18. Etsi tritone . . . . comparo. For Domitius was a ulau of
character and honor, not so Castor. So 111 Piserr. 4, 7, comparing
Metellus Celer and Piso, he says, ecio iujuriam fortissime oire ruer·-
teo, qui 11111111 cujus peuces peres liceo cirritos tulit, cem free irnper-
toee hellae censerem.
22. et semel, &c The MSS. here appear eniterer, but Weiske

 

