- stelin.
ottorootrrrs rrrr trition

or
LbnRNtNG ΤΟ triani), thtrtl, ΛΝΒ SPEAK

'llll lhltlltll tthotlhttb.

With Athlitiom nml eorreettous by llumxlloneem, l’rof of tlte ltnlinn Language in eorumne
Colluge,Ncrr-i'01·ltcrty. One volume, lssrtto. lli 50,

KEY TO THE EXEROISES.

One rol. thtto, 75 cte,

'‘Ottnuoonnn's lrnttnrr (loannem—The system of lenminr antl tenehing the living lan·
ungesby0h= l tf' osuperiurtoallolhet· moremthnt itt nrwhml anti eritho ctntittetttof
er is iu use, itt well-tltrectetl lenaemiesmh otlter institutione of leorntttq.

ὲ t„ toettltiraloan acquaintance with ltalian literature, this work wrlf

——-—-——

aotourlrtnrrr ro ottrrtonrrs trrttltt taltorta.
oabsshbllllbl lltlllllt:

A cotbecTton OF

SELECTED PIECES IN tTnLlltN Prosit,

DESIGNED AS A

obesa READING BOOK ΕΘΗ BEGINNERS

tn THE STUDY OF

THE tltttth LANGUAGE.

ΒΥ Ε. mlx Fonesrt, tt. D„

PROFESSOR OF THE lmmr LANGUAGE ANB LITERATURE IN conobrem comen
Atro tn THE UNIVERSITY 01² THE CITY oF Now-rond.

One volume, lemn Prite ol.

‘³ The ltaliae Reader is compilet] by hir. Fmesti, Professor os tlre Italion Language in the
L'ttlumbia Cullege and the University of Newh'orh. Itappears to be designed to followthestutly
clottendortrs lmlinn Gratum-tr, on which work many correct junges have prouounced that no
imponam improvement eun well be made. ln nralnng selectiens for the boolr before us, llfr.
Foresri bns preferred modern Italian writers to the old school of norelists, lustenam, and poets.
In this be hasdoneagood thingJ for the Italian Reader contains the modern langunge. True,
there are some innovations, some changes which many would deenr a departure froin original
purity⁷ but neverrheless it is tlte language which one finds nnd hears spoken m ltaly. These
eluuges bave gone on under the eye and against tlte stern authorityol'the Academydella Orusca.
arai in their magnificent new moriondi-y, new in process of publication¹ they hare found them·
aelres oompelled to insert many words which are the growth not only of modern necessity, ltu!

“a rice.
nh ΑΡΤΜ selections in the ltalinr. Retderore from popular authors, such as Bolia, llftnzoniA
hlaeltiavelli, Villani, and others. They are so made as not to constitute mere erereises, hut eon-
tain distinct relations so complete as to gransy the render und engage bis attention while they
instruet. This is a marked improvement on that old system which exacred much labor without
enl'rsting tlte sympathies of the student. The selections from hlanzoni, for exntnple, ore from
the ‘¹ Promessi Speei‚¹¹ one of the noblest works of fiction ever issuerl from the press*a work
so popular as to hare gone through an ineredible number os editions in Italy, while it bns been
mmlmen into every lurtguage of Europe. There hare been, we believe, no less titan three dis-
tittet English translmions mede, two ot which were done in this country. The Reader· contains
six eximos from tltts novel, among which are tbe beautiful episodes of Fother Cristosoro and
the *lun ofhlonzm and a description of the famine and plagae of Milan t'n the year 1530. Tlte
arceamus 1he laeue nmis the celebrated one of Booeacio in his Decnmeton. The idioms
that occur itt rie {electioris are explained by a glossary appettdetl to eaoh. The Italian Reatler
erin witlt confidente be recommended to stuoents tn thelnnguuge asa safe und sure gulde After
ffirtfflnffitbe Italian poeta audather classicists may he approaebed with uonfidenee.'¹-saeaw

ι roan.

 

