naath.

COMPANION vo
Ollnllltnnll's NEW llnlllon
OF

annaniae vo nana, waiva, nnn senne
THE FRENCH LANGUAGE.

ΒΥ GEORGE W. GREENE,
Ittsirttclor in Morere Lengnoges in Brenn Uniocrn'ly.

One volume, lQmo. 75 cts.

‘⁶ We commend this volume asa Vade-mecum ιο all young studente es the French tongue.
The tlinlegues are simple in construction—yet they emnruec a wide range os subjects. The
idiomatie hints supply adesideratum that has been long needed by the student, aa those who
have attempted ιο render French colloquy according tegrammatical rates, know too tirell, The
vncahnlury preceding-each conversation is a conveniencel it not arrevelty3 it precludes the neces·
sity ot‘hequent reference to a more fmdewus tanne-Literna Unica.

‘¹ lllr. Greene is lnstructor in hle ern languanes in Brown University, n. l. lle has success·
sully prosecuted the system osteaching practisetl hy Ollentlorll3 and is the authores Ollendonl’s
First LessnnsinFrench. The ‘Campaniam consists ot Dialogues andaVoealrulary. The
stutly nsit is hegun assoon as the scholar has learned enough ahent French verbs ιο enable him
ιο translate. The dialogues have each prefixed to them a special vocptulary os the new words
which eccur in the lcsson. Tlreses ecial veenhularies are tone committed ιο ιιιοπιοιγ, as also
the general vocnlrulary at tlte ond o theseries os lessens. When this is learned, the student will
know all dre words which arc needed ιο enable him ιο speah with propriety on any subject, and
may read the French ol any author with οιιι an occasional oa larger Lexieon. llr. Greenc
is right in eninreing the committing os words to tnemnry: a language cannnt he learned without
such sturly. llo truthtully remarks: ‘Learning words ογ heart is very dull work, and yet it is
the price ὀ ly who tvishesto learnalanguage, must sooneror later pay. Doitinthe
beginning, and the rest os your progress will he easy and pleasant. Put it on-arn you will
never do it at all.l '¹—S. W. Baptist clareant .

“The present worlt, as its nume impons, forms a very appropriate companion ιο the new
edition os Oecannonrv ογ Μ. Vacua noticetl ογ usa serv days since. It cernprises a series os
nincty-two dialoguesy caresnlly selected, so as to tantiliarize the student with an extensive range
ol'sulriect* nal to ennhle him ιο converse upnn them with ense antl fluency.

gaes are followed ογ a valualrle chapter on [litlerences of idioms, in which those
peculiarities ol the lunguage, which cannot be classifietl untlcr general rules7 are clearly exhib-
nedl accompamed ογ grammaticen hints and usesul suggestions.

¹⁴ Nearly one-halles the hook is taken up with a vocabulary of words arranged according ιο
subjecis, presenting at a single glunce all the principal terms relating to any particular arty pro-
fession, or hranch os scienee. Among other improvements, we notice the French names οι all
the principa! countries, cities, towns, islands, sens, avers, mountains «lec, in the world—names
os the principal nations and receset men, and the proper names οι men and women. These
tables ure indispensalrle ιο the F rench student, and alone are worth tlte price os the boelr.

‘¹ ln ΜΓ. (insanas separation as Professor ol atonem Languages in Brotvn University‚ we
have a sufficient guarant'y of the accuracy οι the worlr.”-Beffale Geni, ridn

nntnnnnnrr’s
FIRST LESSONS IN FRENCH,
OR

ELEMENTARY FRENOH Gannlntntt
ananonueaonv vo ocannnonnr³s ennean onnnnaa.

av oioaoe w. ararent,

Instrttclor ef Modern Lengrreges in Brozrn Universt'ty.
One volume, lfimo. 38 cts. ς with a Key, 50 cts.

This volume isintenderl as an introduction to ‘⁴ ansrvoonvv's senenses aaaron MsssonJ’
ancl is puhl'sh d in accordance with a very general demand made sor amore elementary work
than the Gratanter. .

³ lt is t the student who shall taho the pains to go caretully through this volume,
in the nn suggested in the Direclions sor sttnlying it, will cento tn the stntly es the ‘Com-
plero lle with a degree of preparation which will render his subsequent progress easy and
agreeante2¹ 19

 

