THE ORATION FOR Μ. MARCELLUS.

INTRODUCTIONJ

hl. Catonius attrectans had been a friend of Cicero’s from his earliest
¹vouth ; their views on 1rolitieal affairs had generally coincided, and they con-
tinued to aet iu concert until the breaking ont of the civil war. His merite
as an orator are said to have been ol a high order, and interior to few except
Cicero himself. He is first mentioned as curule aedile with P. Clodius, Λ. u. o.
698, ln February ot' that year he defended alito, at Cicero's request, against
the charge of violence brought against him bv Clodius. In 700, lre was one ot
thesin advocates who defended the cause ot' nl. Scaurus; and at'ter the death
of Clodius, τοῦ, toolr a prominent part iu the delence ol' Milo. hithe ⁴vcar 703
he was consul with Ser. Sulpicius Rufus, and during the period os his magis-
traev he shewed lrimselt' a zealons partisan os Pompey, and songht tosecure
his favor hy urging the senate to extreme mensures against Caesar.

But all the party zeal and animosity ot' Marcellus did not blind him to the ob
vious imprudence olsoreiug on a ivm lor which they were unprepared. Though
he joined Pomrrey and his partisausin Epirus, it is clear that he did not engage
with any heartiuess in the cause, ol which, according to Cicero, he feresaw
the sailure tium the beginning; and aster the battle ol' Pharsalia he aban-
doned all thoughts oforolonging the contest, andivithdrew to lllytilene‚ivlrere
he gave hiinsell' up to the puisuits ol rhetoric and philosophy. Here Cesar
was content to leave him unrnolested in a kind of honorable exile3 and lilar-
cellus himselt'was unwilling tosue to the conqueror t'or forgiveness though
Cicero wrote to him repeatedly from Rome, urging him in the strongest man·
ner to do so, and assuring him ot' the clemency ot' Ceasar. But though llar-
cellus himselt' would taire no steps to procare his recall, his friends at Rome
were not baelnvard in their exertious t'or that purpose 3 and at length, in a lull
assembly ot the senate, C. Marcellae, the cousin ot' the exile, threw hirnselt' at
Caesar's feet to implore the pardon ot his lrinsman, and his exarrrole was rol-
lowed bg the whole body ol the assembly. Cesar gielded to this demonstra-
tion ol' opinion, and llareellns was declared to be forgiven, and restored to all
his former lrouors. Cicero wrote to arrnourree to him this favorable result, in
a letter now lost; bnt the answer ot' hlurcellus is preserved, and is ruarlred by
a singular coldness, which would lead us to the conclusion that his ineruer-
ence in this matter was real and not assumed. He, however, set ont on his
return; but having touched at the Peiraeeus, where he had an interview with
his former eolleague, Sulpicius, theu proconsul in Greeee, he iras assassiuated
immediately afterwards ayone of his own attendants, P. dlagius Chilo. There
seems no doubt that the deed was prompted by private resentment, though
suspected at the time to have been conunitted at the instigatiou ol Cesar.
Sulpicius naid him all dne funeral honors, and caused him to be buried in the
Academv, where a monument was ereeted to him hythe Atheniens, at the
public expense—Dran. Ga. ano Ron. Broc. ann Mnrn.

 

