262 nonas.

l’nrro
65 qramr, as often as it lras tho meaning of eo, quod, necessarily requires

the indicativo. See P. C. 488 ( ).

35. De rc· De lantoviro deligendo-Dc perficiendi socnltntc.
About our ahility to carry through this choica. Tho nunrbcrs and
zeni of tho pcoplo show their sontinrents.

st. Atque is hero explanatory. 'l‘ho dorrefieinm consisted irr tire
prtctorship rvlriclr had been conferrcd on lrinr.

40. Polliceor· ac defero. Defcro = uitro offero, confero, ut
numerosior cadat oratio, adjectura verbo polliceor.

·}l· Huic loco temploque. There nicro numerous ternples
aronrrd the lorurrr. We aro, however, to understand tenrploof the
roso-a, as a rrearer explanation of loco. Cf. in Vatia. in rostris, io
illo, inquam, arrgnrato tenrplo ac loco ; Liv. 8, 14: rostroque id tem-
plonr appellatura, because consecrated by augures-Prasiana See
note orr p. 39, lino 7.

42. Aa rempublicam adeunt· Compare ad anngistrotas rern-
qae pnblicanr accedero. Vcrr. 1, 12, ³3. These phrases arc used of
those wiro are candidates for public affines, or who are catering rrpon
public life ciotlrcd with civic honore.

43. cujusquam. Pompey or lris friends-Neque quo. Z. 536.
We should expect “ sed quod hoc rei publicar utilissimum esse confido’'
to follow, but the construction otranges at b 71. In a sinriiar way tho
construction is broken off, od Q. fret. 2, ἒς and pro Quinct. 3, fl.

66 2. Honoribus. Tlre consulship particularly, since tlris was tlro
only remaIning object of Cicero’s anibitiorr.

3. Ut nominem praestare oportet. So far as a nrarr carr en-
gage to do.

4. Honorem. Madvig and Klotz, horrores.

ὅ. Eadem illa nostra laboriosissima ratione vita, sc. vos de-
fendendi. ’

t. Mihi. Ζ,4]9,

8. Tantumque abest, ut ..... ut. And so far froin scerning to
have ainred at sorne grateful return, I even, &a Tantum abesse,
followed by two clauses with nt, is almost without exception nsed irrr-
personally3 the first sentence wilh ul forming its subject, and tlre sec-
oud sentence witlr ut depending upon the rantum.

10. Simultates. See Arnold’s Nepos, p. 177.

11. Non necessarias· For Imight bave avoided thern-Noe
inutiles. An instance of the figures litotes and asyndeton. Their
advantage to tlre state Manutius finds, in the ascertaining of the will
of the citizens, so as to be able to distinguish tlre good from tire bad;
Benecke, because he incurred tlrem irr undertaking a cause which

- would be of tbe highest ntility to tire people3 trenay, because public
good often aceruos from the disputes of politieal opponente hy reason
of the watch which they keep on each other’s actions.

 

