ounrrou eon r. arurae turno. 421

reference to the internal thought. Nouius Marc. cites from Cic. defigi

Rep. vi. ut . . mille nerninem. descenderent.

41. valentium. Able-bodied. Solicinineoaleuli. P. Clueut.
62175. Robusti et valentes satellites. Agr. 253l.—Adoersarii
Clodii, quum adversarius loco edito atque excelso esset. Did Milo
thiulr, iu frout os Clodius¹s farm, dec, on the high and lofty ground of
his opponent, to come off superior?

44. Res loquitur ipsa. Withoutme. Cf. p. cluent. 50, 139:
Nom ri cuusae ipse pro se loqui possent, werno adhiberet oratorem.
nuuc adhibemur, at eu dicemur, dac.

l. Quae semper = et ea semper, dre—Si lter, &c He 110less
proceeds to argue from the concomitant circumstances, the vehicla,
dress5 traiu, &c This nirrtlt argument, with the explanatione arisiug
from it, extends to ch. 23.

4. Alter. Milo: debehat ita pergere: alter egrederetur e villa su-
bito, vesperi, tarde. Sed interjectis illis Quid lorum nou impeditissi-
mum, dec, ordo immutatus est-Iu rhedo paricletus. See ch.10‚
&de-Uxor, Fausta, the daughter of Sulla.

5. vestitus, an vehiculum, quasi praecessisset Quid horum iru-
peditius? vest. au yeh.

6. Poenulo irretitus. Forthe penula was a close-fitting over-
·all without sleeves, which coufined the arms. It was either made
of wool or skin, aud was principally used iu travelling, and to keep off
the rain aud cold. The vehicle, too, was rather a pleasurc carriage
thau one adapted to speed aud fligirt.

ἴ. Unore paene constrictus, que muliebri timore perculsa eum
nou patiebatur ad pugnarn descendere.

8. Videte nunc illum, &e Iu this passage Cicero leaves the
auswers to his queries to be supplied from his previous observatione.
Thus, to the question, egredientem e villu, subito ,¹ eor? the answer
would naturally suggest oseis-‘¹ because he had heard from the mes-
seuger‚’'ch. 18. Milouem appropinquare. To nesperi; quid rre-
eesse est? aud tarde qez' conuenit? why leave the villu in tlte
eoeatag? the reply would be found ch.18. He liud ao reueon, ei
quidem exiturus ud cedem e villa consuisset. Translate: Observe
him now, first ot all sallyiug out irorn his villa, unexpectedly: whyr
-In the cveuirrg too: where was the necessity for that 'i With slow
progress· how is this to be rationally explained—especially at such au
honri—E oilla, sc. sua, i. e. Clodii.

10. Devertit, dcc. Cicero here in the spirit of his opponents sug-
gests an explanation ior the purpose ot overtlnowiug it with still more
force—Iu etitem Pompeii. See note on ia Allieno, p. 120, line 15.
Some ruins belonging to it are still found—Pompeium ut videret?
As herere his rhetorical questions were more lorcihle denlals of any
reason, necessity, or propriety iu regard to the euddeuuess, time, aud

36

 

