316 norae.

Paga

8ss 40. [Teque . . . . cogitovcrantn These words are bracketed by
Orelli, after Madvig, on account ol the perversity os the sentiment.
Esse before cognocerent is omitted in the conunon tert, as is often
the case aster the verim sentiendi ,· but wlrem a lasting state is to be
denoted, it should he expressed.

41. Apud ipsum tc = apud ipsum, de cujus perleulo dicerent, id
est, apud te. See note on p. 80, line 29.

42. Fore putabant, nt . . . . insideret. Z. 594-Ezulcerau,
fignratively from scstering wonnds. Tlrerefore insideret. of a deeply-
seared and fixcd grnrlge. As Cesar would be called upon to negative
this supposition, so it is a tacit exhortation to justice.

Η. Per clementiam. Benecke, Klotz, aud Madvig omit the

proposition here.
87 3. Hospes hospiti. Z. 798. The allusion is to the tirno when,

in returning from his march against Pharnaces, alter the Alexandrian

war, Caesar partooh of the hospitality os Deiotarus.

4·-Non tam in bellis, dec. lllatthiae here supposes a blending of
two constructions, one of which would give noa tam in bellis, prtem
in phoenissis ,dranum ,¹ the other, riou inbellis, quoin in prornissisjir-
citiorem. Benecke rejects this explanation, aud holds that tum does
not correspond to the following quoia, which refers rather to the com-
parative firmiorem, but is closely connected with the nou, nearly in
the sense of non edereedere. Schneider (Jolirb. aar. B. 1848, p. 280)
prefers the view of Benecke, and compares Liv. 28, 39, 12: Quod
nobie aon tota fructu j ucuad ius est quem ultione, where
latu as in our passage is found in all MSS. On the twofold applica-
tion of inaniis, compare ud Fam. 7, 5, 3: totum deniqne hortunam
titi ite trodo de rauna, ut aieret, in ieonum tuam istam et
victorie et side prestantem.

6. Dii penates. The tntelary gods of his family.

ἵ. Deiotari regis· On the order ef the words, see Z. 796. Which
is the usual order l—Aroe focique. See note on p. 46, line 24.

8. Facile [exorarih Not only easily induced to forgive, bnt to
forgive heartily (cerami, once for all, eid 39). Klotz, Benecke, Sdpfle,
aud Soldan read focile orari from the best MSS, and explain it: Cae-
sar on theone hand doesnel close his ears to entreaty, and on the
other allows himself, once for all, to be prevailed upon.

9. Plaeavit . . . . senserit. After qui non or quin, when a neg-
ative or equivalent interrogative precedes, it is the usage of Cicereio
place the subjunctive in the same tense which has gone before, be-
cause the action follows immediately, and is included in the sarno time
as the preceding. Compare nete on p. 55, liue 22.

10. Quamquam, &c “Though why dwell eu thisl Forby
whom have your expostulations with Deiotarus been nnheardl Every
one knows the drift of them. You never accused him as au euemy‚”

 

