ftttth

otmundum} NEW ttutttott

unnnnrno To nnnufnntnn nonerunt
THE FRENOH LANGUAGE‚

ttdm an nppenmx, containing tbe eardinat end Ordinal Numbers, and full Parndigms of tbe
Regular und Irregulor, Atmiliary, Rellective, und lmpersonal Verhn

Bu J. L. vamu, One volume, 12mo. 31.

¹ Nun hlernon or Lnnnrtmo nne Fnsrtcu mnemon-This grammar must supersede
cll others now used for instruction in the French longuage. Its conception und arrangement ere
edmtmble,-tbe work evidently osa mind familiar wtth the deficiencies of the systemS, the
place of which it is designcd to supply. In all the tvorks of the kind that have satten under our
nottce, there lma been so much elt nnexpteined or obscure, und so many things have been
omitted-tribes, perhaps, ln the estimation of the author, but the cuuse of great embarrassrnent
to the learner-—that they have been comparatively valuelcss as sels-instructore. The student,
deceiyed by their specmus pretensions, has not roceeded far before be hoa felt himself ina
condition stmilar to that of a mariner who should] put out to sea without ocum ess to direct
hun. llehusencountercd difficulty after difficulty, to which his gratrrmar affor-led no clue;
when, disappomted and discouraged, hc has either abandoned the study in disgust, or tf hro
ntenns permrtted, has resorted to n teacher to necomplish what it was not in his power to etiect
by the aid of his 'sets-instructor?

‘¹ Ollendortf hes passed his roller over the whole field of French instruction, and the rugged
mequnlities formerly to be eneountered, no longer discourago the leamer. What were the
dtfficulties of the language, are here mastcred tn succession; and the only surprise of the
student, aa he pasees from lesson to lesson, is, that he meets none of these ‘lions in the way)

“The vatue of the work has been greatly enhanced by a eareful revision, and the addition of
eu appendix containing matter essential to ita compeleteness either us a book fot theuso of
toachers or for sels-instruction.¹'—Neto-York Contnterct'ol Advertiser.

---ιψ>----

vacuus tinnovero nomon or
ottuuuouuu’SOFNutt nuthet)

LEARNING TO READ, themu, AND SPEAK

tttu heuheu tlutultu.

With the Lessons divided into Sections of c Proper Length sor Daily Tnsks, and numerous Gor·
rectione, Additions, and Improt'ements, suttable for this country, by V. vicum to which
ts added Value⁷s System of Freneh Pronuntiation3 his Grammatical Synopsisc a
New Index, and Short Models of Cotnmetciul correspondente.

One volume, lQnto. Price sl.

“bin anue bas taught practically Ollendorff3s sdystettt for many years, aud has bestowed
much thought and labor on the improvement of thrs e mon. The longer lessons have been judi-
ciously subdivided3 nruch attention has been bestowed upon the arrangement of the exercises
relatingto the subjunctive mood: besides the system of pronunciation, tte have an excellent
grammatical synopsis, which appears to us, ona brief exannimdou, very happily constructed,
and of great cabte In his presace the author mentions several minute corrections made iu this
edition, which show the care and accuracy bestowed upon it.¹¹-Ubureltmon,

blesens. tt. benennon «b Co

Gentlentett.
lhave carefully perused your new edition of Ollendortl* by lllr. Value, and findit con-
tains alt the improvemeuts the original work so much required. lt is evidently tbe resultes lon
research,time and labor, founded upon experience ond a thorough knowledge of the system, nug
tu my estintatron far supertor to any work of the ktnd which lhrtue yet met trith. l intend
adoptiug tbe use of it in my classes. Yours, respectlfull'lysrjE Ε
«Μ tt,

Professor of tlte Frenclt Longtmge io tlte N. Y, Free Academy.
Ἄ* Keos fo tte Ecerct'ses as ide above Grontntors iu seporcfe cols, 75 cis, ecch

18

 

