FIRST ORATION AGAINST CATILINE.

ANALYSIS.

This oration is distributed into three parts :—

l. ln the introduction the orator expresses his astonishment at the bold ap·
pearance of Catiline in the senate, and reminds him with what severity he
ought long before to haue been treated, as similar cases were dealt within
earlier periods of the state. He at the same time gives the reasons, for
which he has not already put Catilina to death. (Chops. l, 2.)

2. The main proposition isa surnmons to Catiline to leaue the city, to go
either into exile or into the camp of hiallius (ch. 3) ; for-¹

(a) His shameful conspiracy is known to all, his private life stained by crimes
of every kind,and his public life has to such adegreeexcited thoabhorrence
of the senate, the citizens, and the whole country, that it by an emphatic
silence, as it were, demands the removal of Catiline, although the consul
by allowing him to go unpunished will bring upon himself the greatest
odium. (Chaps. 3-9, d 23.)

(h) It must be agreeable to Catiline himself to leave Rome and withdraw to
the camp of Mallius, whither he has already sent iorward his troops, finding
as he does, consistently with his character, his greatest deliglrt in making
war upon his country, and in the society of similar disturbers of the public
peace. (Ch. 9, d 24, to ch. 10⁴) And,

(c) Such arvitbdrawal of Catiline will be more advantageous to the state
than would be his execution, as in the fornier case his follow-conspiratum
will follow· him, and thus the seeds of disorder he extirpated. This last
consideration the orator adds especially as a justification of his course of
proceeding. (Chaps. ll-13‚ d 32)

Ἰ 3. In conclusion, Cicero promises to the senate the cooperaticn of all orders
in suppressing the remnants of the conspiracy7 after the removal of Catiline
and his associates; and, again bidding Catiline with lus adherents to leave
nomene supplicates Jupiter Stator to protect and save the Roman state.
(cb. 13, t ait-end.)

Pege

Cn. 1.-1. Quousque tannem. The abruptness of the language 9
and the interrogative form here strongly express the indignation of the
orator at seeing Catilina, contrary to all expectation,present iu the sen·
ate, as though innocent of all treasonable designs against his country.

Comp. sall. Β. G. 3t-Tandam expresses irnpatienco and adds force

to the interrogation. It may often be rendered “pruy,³' “Ipray'’

So sall Cot, 20: Quo quousque taudem polientici? See Zumpt,

§cca-Aturm = misapply, i. e. by making use os it to confirm, not

correct your audacity. Oi the sorni iu re sor rit, see Ζ, r) iot.

2. Nostra. Not of Cicero or tho consuls only but of the senate
also-Etiam (et jum). Sometimes the notion of timo prevaiis, and

it: “stili’' as hero, “How long—stilli”—Furor. Benecke notices

 

