228 noune.

X? Cu. 1.—1. Frequens conspectus vester, by hypallage sor con·

spectus frequentia uestra. cf. p. Plano. l, 2: Nunc autem aester,
judices, conspectas et caraecarae isto reficit ct recreat trientem racana.

2. Mrilto jucundissimus. See Z. 108 aud ret-Hic autem la-
euo, Themetra, from which the oratore addressed the people. Con-
snlt Dict. Antip. nosrta-narem = “ aud though,” dra, serves to
continue the discourse. See uoto ou p. 30, line 23.-Ad agendum . . .
dicendum. The distinction between agere and dicere in this passage
is given in Geli. 13, 15. Only magistrates had the right ol submitting
questions to the peoplc (agere caim populo) sor their approval or dis-
epproval3 while to haraugue them was open to any one, though not
iuvested with office, to whom the presiding magistrate gave the au-
thority—Ad = quod attinet ad. See note on p. 12, line 29.

4. Hoc aditu laudis. The Rostra, the grand entrance to glory
and fame at Rome-Optimo cuique inarime patuit. Z. tro, b.

5¹ Vitoe meae rationes· My chosen plan or course of lise, i. e.
plcadiug causes.

6. Ab ineunte etate. Referring to manhmd, not boyhood. At
the age of 26 Cicero argued his first private cause sor P. Quinctius,
aud in the following year his first public cause for Roscius oi Ameria.
-Nam, quum, &e Three causes deterred him from the rostra: l.
his plens oi life, 2. his modesty, 3. the talcnts end industry requisito
for such an undertaking.

ἵ. Per etatem. Cicero was now in his forty-first year, had been
pleading causes sor nearly twenty, aud had held the offiees of quaestor
and edile-Hujus auctoritatem loci = hunc locum, qui auctoritatem
tribuit concionantibus ex eo. But Benecke considers the words laic l -
cue ad ag. amplissimus, ad dic. ornatissimus and hujus auct, loci nt-
iingere audeam, statueremque nihil huc uisi perfectum ingenio, duc,
as mutually cmresponding, aud explanatory· of each other. Locus ad
agendum amplissimus is therefore one to which only magistrates aud
men of the highest dignity were admitted, end ad dicendam ornatis·
straus where the finished aud elaborate eloqueuce of the most perfect
orators was went to be brought forwerd. Conse-quently, liujus aueto-
ritateut loci is that to thch the highest authority belongs, because
from it men os the highest standing aad influenee were wont to con-
sult the people.

10. Temporibus = καιροῖς. Of. p 2: in privatorum periculis,
and note on p. 15, line 31. Benecke is displeased with the play upon
the urords tempus . . . .tcmporibur.- Transruitteudum = tribuendum.
Ch l-i, 42: huic hoc tantam bellurn transmittendam

11. lta neque hie loeus. Sensus est: Eo paeto, dum privatis
servio, vestram mihi benevolentiam conciliavi, quum interea tamen
desertus hic locus uon essct. Hotoman. For a dependent thought,
which should be thrown iu, as au interueniug or aeeessory clauso,

 

