onarrou uon anu nnmnmu univ. 235

= 8· S⁰Ci¹1⁸ Ρ· R· atque ammas. Such honorary titles vvere ra-lfilgo⁶

celvcd by friendly hings srom the Roman peopla lor services rendered.
They vvere conferred by decree ol the senatu, und accompanied by
rich gists-as a goldan erovvn, a golden patera, an ivory curule chair,
an embroidered toga, an ivory sceptre, and a tunic with a purple bor·
der. Thoso who hnd received this title, in foreign eountries placed
their throne next to the seat ol the Roman generals, and bada squad-
ron ol Roman cavalry as a guard.

ll. Gnirctansia. Cl. tota Asia, 3, 7. “At non idem est in
totu Asia et iu cuncta Asia. Nam cuncti signi tent widemannus,
scd conjunctos et congregatos, ait F ostus.” Matthiae. So some separato
these words tiom tha preceding by a comma, and tahe them as nom-
inativcs.

14. Alium miseritis. M) Acilius Glabrio, the consul of the
previous year. See §b 5 and eu-Sz'ne suinvzo periculo, ne offendant
Glabrionem.

16. summa ..... omnia· The greatest virtues, tho highest
qualities.

lt. Propter esse, i. e. in Cilicia, employed against the pirates.
This vvar however hc brought to an end in eut and landed his forces
in Cilicia aud Pamphylia, ivhere ho ivaited hoping to receive tho com-
mand in Asia-Quo . . . . <egrius = et eo aegrius carent, sc. Pompeio.
These words are included in aparentbesis by Klotz and Madvig, and
the following cnjus brought into immediate connection with eain
propter esse.

22. Dignos . . . . qnorum . . . . commendetis. Z. 568.

23. Atque hoe etiam magis. Snpplydignosexistiinetis. Hoc
tnagis stands with stronger emphasis l'or eo tingis—Quod ceteros,
&c The common reading is quam ceta-oo, quod ejusmodi boin. in
prou. Benecke explains the text as arising from brevity ol expression,
sor qnod ceteri hernicos, quos ia prouinciam mittimus, ejusmodi sarit.

24. Cum imperio, sc. militari, quod habent ii, quibus potestas
belli gerendi data est. Hoc imperium qui habent, dicuntur csse cum
imperio. The weatth of the Asiatic provinces excited, more than any
other, the avarica of the Roman generals. Ct'. ohaps. 22 and 23.

25. Adventus. Why the plural of an abstract noun? Z. 99.

26. Ab hostili expugnatione· For the conduct ol the Roman
praetors in Asia, see chaps, 22 and 23, and compare nd Q. froi- 1, 2, 9,

27. Hanc, audiebant. When he vvas carrying on war in Italy,
Africa, Gallia, and Spain-Tanta temperantia, &a What ablatives
are these? Z. 471. Hanc virtutem primam nominat, ut opponat ali-
orum libidini et rapacitati.

29. Cummoratnr. Ernesti thought the subjunctive necessary,

and. reads contina-ator. But Cicero hero speaks in his oivn person. ’
Z. 545.

 

