enarrari ron niue uaroninus. 323

probability, there are none even sor suspicion¹ Thisbe proceeds ῐοΡΨ

prove—Inquit, sc. the accuser—In castellum Luceium. Castellum,
a diminutive of castrum, is a sort raised in a territory to defend it
against the incursione of an enernyJ or on its bordcrs, to guard the
passes; or lastly‚ it formed spari oi the regular ericampment itself
Owing to the security which these castella affordod, towns ware osten
built near thern. Here Luceium is to be taken first, generally as the
nanre of the “casile'’ adjacent to, bnt distinct from which was the
royai palaea. Hence visiters to the palaea were said “ te corne to the
cnstle.” Again, ch. 7, itis taken as the “citadeP’ or “coatia''
properly so called, and as such is visited by Caesar the following day.
Orelli regards the name Luceium as corrupi, as Strabo calls it

atatam.
14. Devertisses. Z. 209. Soldan gives diaertisses.

16. Huc. The place where the gitts were dispiayed.-E balaeo.
For the bath before dInner was Roman etiquctte,

17. Ibi . . . . in eo ipso loco. The tormer denotes the place
generally, and the latter epexegetieally more nearly defines it. In eo
ipsa lece also are to be more closely connected with collocati, so that
erant stands by itself, and collocati as in appositiou with armati. ‘⁴ For
there were armed men, who had been placed in that very spot, for the
purpose of hilling yon.’'

18. Eu crimen, en cansa. Z. 403, Nate 2.

19. Ego mehercules. The first circumstance connected with
the charge, and which shows its improbability, is that a physician was
privy to the secret, yet that the sword was preferred to poison. On

the sorni mehercules, see Ζ, 361, Nate.
20. Quum esi ad me ista cansa delata, et delatura Phidip-

pum. . . . esse corruptum. When that case was laid before me, and
it was laid before rae, that Phidippus, &a Se uterinae. Benecke
mora correctly takes the acc. with the infin. as in apposition with eau-
sa, for tho purpose ot more nearly defining wherein this consists. In
Cicero, when an acc, c. ius. is governed by an abstract substantive,
the substantive usually has a demonstrative pronoun agreeing with it,
as in this instance.

22. anisio. Castorzspolren with contempt. Seenote on p. 9,
line 16. Soidan and Klotz: ipsa.

26. Quid ait medicus. Medicus with emphasis, to contrast

with uenena. Soldan: agit inedicus.

at. Primo. . . . deinde. The two advantages of poison: “itis
more secret, and has more impunity.” Madvig: priruiim.

30. Jovis ille quidem hospitalis. Strangers and guests were
under the immediate protection of Jupiter, who avenged any injury
done to them. Hospitalis = ξενίου. Benecke, Klotz, and Soldan
read Jaais illius quidem, &c

 

