enarrer ron aruo perorares. 335

suspects some aristalio, and would correct the text. This seems uu-ngo

necessary. The imputation ou Castor is this: that after Phidippus
had received his first bribe, aud given his testimony, he aekuowledged
before respectable witnesses that it was false, aud that he had been
corrupted. But lie now persists iu tho saure tale. The inference
drawn by Cicero is, that the bribe must have been repented.

23. nd legatos. Namely, Hieras, Blesamius, aud Antigonus, a
quorum pedibus per te abstractus erat.

24. Nonne etiarn aa bunc Cn. Domitium. Probably the same
Domitius who is mentioned, ch. 5, as a general of Ceesar's. Sulpicius
is the celebrated lawyer, a friend of Cicero, aud zealous adherent of
caesar. They were both present ou this occasion, as rnay be inserred
from the use of the prououn hie. So below, ch. tt: huie Reserate,-
p. Areh. 9: tejas procons Coto. Benecke, Klotz, and Madvig emit
etium. Orelli says: Servavi cum Cod.Ber11.v.euam; videlicet sig·
nificat, “vel ad ipsum Cu. Domitium, caesaris amicum, venisse Phidip-
pum, sui iudicii jamjam precellentem-'⁵

26. T. Torquato. The Torquatus bere mentioned is uncertain.
Orelli, iu his Onomasticou, makes hirn theson os A. Torquatus, or of
the Titus who is mentioued in Brut. 70, 245 ς aud p. Plane. ll, 27.

duxlt—29. impotens. The common text gives impudens,
which Orelli supposes was substituted by copyists for the true reading,
from ignorance of the sense which impotens here has. Compare Plu'l.
5, 9, 2⁰4: impetentem, iracundam, contumeliosum, superbum, sem-
per pesceotem, seraper rapientem, semper ebrium. [inpetens in such
cases is not = weak, but ungovernable, violent, tyrannical.

30. Idcirco.. . . ut. See note ou p. 26, line n-Jn loric urbem
....lrujus erbis. The repetition is for emphasis In line 32, the
MSS. give iahmnonz'tote toi· irnnranitrte, and so Benecke, Klotz, and
Madvig read. Frotscher prefers iiomouitote.

31, Domestica = Asiatic and borbarous.

33. nt quam acute collecta. Ironlcally, for Castor¹s charges
were rather an invective against the tyranny of Caesar thau au iuju-
rious accusation of Deiotarus. Compare eh. e, lb: At puoto festive
oritueo corzirritae—Btrserrirrs, with Hieras and Antigonus, formed
the embassy seut by Deiotarus to plead his cause before Caesar. See
ch. 15. Hinr the accusers pretended to be a spy.

34. Enim has an ironical force = forsooth. Ironia in eo posita
est, quod causa affertur rei, quam falsam vel absurdam esse ornnes sei-
unt—Optimi oiri. So also Madvig. Benecke, Soldau, arrd Klotz:
optimi leontinis. On the differeuce between lzovro and eir, see Aruold‘s
Nepos, Pone. l, l. Vir is said of inan in his relations to the state and
to civie virtues, as a good citizen or patriot3 lronro is man as au indi-
vidual or person, or with reference to his relations in private lite and to
eoeial virtues. They often stand together, aud the epitheta ot eir aro

 

