322 nores.

{aggeum have been expected to average hie death Abram enumeratos

the following: Sadales, lang of Thrace, Cotye, Rhascypolis, Ariobar-
zanes, Tarcondimotus, Mithridates Pergamenus, and Ariarathes.

42. Filio. Deiotari regis, ct patris atfilr'i, el euagrius cl aestro
racia instruetur exercitior suanae ia filio spes, sarrinia iiigraii io-
dolas, ruarmo virius. Pliil, il, 13.-Dirlractae esset = would have
been at varianae or discord, would have qnarrellcd with, fallen ent
with, &a Plerique etiamnunc exponunt ‘'discerptns, dilaceratrrs,”
quum sit ¹‘ a societate divulsus esset, in maximum odium oninium,
etianr conjugis ac filii, incidisset.’¹ Hoc patet partim ex ἐπιθέτῳ caris-
simo, partim ex eo, qnod dicit etiarn cogitato rcclcrc fntnrnrn fnisse,
nt distraheretur. Tantam enim crudelitatem cesari, apud quem
verba facit, imputare non poterat, nt is detecto Deiotari perfido con-
silio atqrreoccrrpa10,etiam conjugem et filinm regis, homines prorsus
innocentes, laceraturus, discerpturus, id est, necaturus fuisset. Orelli.

43. Non modo. lde net say perpetraied, dcc. Z. 724.

89 CriVL—l. etheredo. Anobjeetien. All that pron have men-
tioned as improbable in Deiotarus, becomes easy is he is a raslr and in-
considerate inan. But quir consideratior iiior On al, see Z. 3493
and on credo, Z. 777. Gorisideralae, which is properly said ol things,
is elsewhere applied to persons. Phil. 2, 13, 31: p. Qriint. 3, 11.

2. Quis tectior. Benecke, Klotz, and Soldan read and dolend
qais rectior, which is found in the best MSS. Rosiae is te be tehen,
not in the moral sense osjnst or honest, but as equivalent to firm, cen·
sistent, one whose judgment is correct and scund. But Orelli explains
tectior as: Metaphera petita ab gladiatoribus, qui, uti debent, contra
ictus adversariorum sese tegunt. Non igitur inest in his vorbis ma-
lignae calliditatis reprehensio,

3. Quamquam. Z. 341, in fin.

6. cui porro. Z. 419. Nay, sarther3 a correction ef the prece-
ding sentence: Ι said that Deiotarns's virtues ruere lrnown to y0u3
pay, the whole world has heard ci thern.

8. Quod igitur· He draws the conclusion from the aclrnowledgcd
prebity and prudence os Deiotarus. Instead os ‹iridita est, Benecke,
Klotz, and Soldan read sit ondita In the next line, sor cedrio poscat,
Madvig reads cade-ei, considering the sonneras expanded from the
latter by seme copyist for the salre oi perspicuity.

10.Irlem. Z. fior.

ll. Minime stulto· A species el litotes or morosis, where an af·
firmatien is made by denying the opposite aetion. Comp. p. Glucat.
26, 72: minime cazarus is visas est, &e similarly, we say, ‘¹ he is
no feol.” On oir and lroazo, spoken of the same person, see note on
p. 93, line 34.

13. Suspiciese. Place the charges on one side, the life oi Deio·
tarus on the other, aad so far from there being in them grounds sor

 

