onnrron ron o. LIGARIUS. 293

what Cicero says of him, nd Q. Frnt. 1, 1, from which we should iri-337e
fer that doctrino is not tube iirnited to scientio jurio, but is used of
cnitnre and learning geriernliy.

28. Genus hoe cansa quod osset· Cr, Deiot, H, 30: Quis
tuum piru-em . . . . puz' e.ssci; und note 011 p. to, line l.—Qood . . ..
non uiderit. P. G. 451, 513, 5193 Z. 529,

29. Agl rnny be taken absolutely, or ceresam can be suppliedv

31. Ut ego dico. Klotz, dicum.

32. Hrec admirabilia. This passage is much interpolated in
tho tiss. For this reading, which Benecke, lllotz² hludvig‚a11d
Soldun also give, we are indebted to the God. Gol. The cornrnou
text is urrsonud in various respects. It nrny be noticed thnt Cicero
usually ornits the substantive verb in such short clauses, See Z. 776.

33. Ista accusatio. See note on p, u, lino 16. litore ist. uc. tun.

34· Condemnctnr . . . necetur. Ρ. O. 5ss 3 Z. 531. ,

35. Externf isti mores, duc. This passage is also variously
given. The connnontext is, externi isti suntruor·es; ....incirnrr'
solet odiunt out lenium, &c Riotz, Benecke, snpfle,soloa11‚ann
others reject sunt and read incitari soient odio, &o The sense
then is as follows: Externi isti meree, hoc est, non Romani, qui graves
sunt, sed exterorum populorum, ut aut leviurn Graecorum aut immu-
nium harbarorum, solent odio aliquo suscepto ac penitus insito ad san-
guinem petendum incitari. Benecke makes the following genitires
dopend on odio; Siipfle more correetly considers them os n supple-
mentnry explanatory appendix, limiting or determining externi isti
errores. He would also prefer, if MSS. allowed it, to onrit solent, ns
Wunder and illudvig do, lry which the passage gains iu energy.

37. Ne sii. Supply id egis, with this and the following subjunc-
tives which denote the purpose. P. 0. 583 Z. 531.

39- consobrino suo- According to the old grammarians und
lawyers consobrinus stands for consororinos, and denotes properly
children of two sistere. But the word is used in a wider sense of tho
children of hoth brothers and sistcrs. Since now avunculus denotes
tho mother's brother, nnd therefore the mother of Ligurius ivas the
sister of Brocchus, his sou iras properly the oruitinuu of Ligarius¹
Klotz also reads, aurine. suo.

41. wana prohibetur, exsulat. Ζ] 783,

42. Hunc. Ligarius, who is oonoeised of as present-Priene
is more rhetorical than privari, and presents Tubero in u inore cruel
light. So the monosyllnhle vis eloses the sentence with ahrnptness
und force. Therefore Manutius : mira vis in nnnrero: solet enirn Ci-

oero, que sunt acerbiora, breviter concludere, nt illud quoque proxi-

mum, Iiuliu prohibetor, exsulet.
43.1)rctar01=en1. Li Cornelius Sulla. Cf. Plut. Sull. 313and
Veli. Pet. 2, 23, 3.

25³¹<

 

