onnrrou rora ran mammen anw. 231

reason the property of even the wealthiest individual must have beenhffi

inadequate‚ a number of equites generally united together and formed
a company (socii, societas, or corpur), which iras recognised by the
stato. The creditos these oompanies and the flourishing state of
their finances, were of the utmost importunae to the state, and in fact
its very foundation. See ch. 6. Cicero, p. Plena, calls them the or-
uamentum civitatis et firrnemeutum eei publicae.

12. nguraru- = are at stoke, employed in the larming ef your
revennae—Exeruere uectigalia is said ol the equite53 exigere ol their
subordinates (vid. 016). Vectigalia is the general term for all the
regular revenues os the Roman state. These were derived partly
from the tithes paid‘to the state by those utho occupied the public land
(decurram partly stom the sums pald by those who hept their cattle
on tho public pastures (scripturo) ; and partly lrom the harbor duties
raised upon imparted and exported commodities (perier-ium). There
ivero other revenues from the salt-works (rutile) and the mines (nze-
utta). Thosevarions branchos ol the revenue were let out 'by the
censum, who had the charge oi this business, to the Publiceni for a
fixed sum and sora certain number ol years The letting or sale ot'
the revenues generally took place ιιι tlre morrth ol Quinctilis, and was
mado sor a lustrum. The responsible person in each company, aad
the ono who contracted with the state, was called inunceps. There
was also a magister to manage the business ol each soclety, who re-
sidcd at Rome, and kept an extensive correspondence with the agents
in tho provinces. See Dict. Antip. Vnorronnrn and Puonronur.

13. Pro necessitudine. For Cicero himself belonged to their
order, and, regarding thern as holding the balance os power in the
stote, zealously defended their interests. Cf. p, Rutrr. Post. b', 153 ed
Q.srut. 1, l, 12.

ld. Causam rei publice. See note οιι uestrum curteum, p. 47,
line ta. He adds tho public interest to the private interest uf the
equites¹ that he may not seem to he solicitous for these only⁴

15. Bithyniae, vicus exustos esse. The construction
which the parenthesis had interrupted is here continued, and these
words depend upon efferuntur..,.1itercu—Veotrc prouincia. By
the wid ol tha deceased hing Nicomedes Philopator, n. ιι. o. 579, who
beqneuthed it to the Roman people, because Sulla had restored him to
the throne when driven ont ol his kingdom by Mithridates, it became
a Roman province, arrd trias governed sometimes by proconsule, some-
times by propraetors.

16. Regnum Ariobarzanis, sc. Cappadocia, of which, on tha re-
oall ol Lucullus, Mithridates again tooh possession,

18. Huic qni snccesscrst. Μ’. Acilius Glabrio, consul, n. u c.
dar, aud at tlutl time governor ot' Bithynia.

20. Unum, sc. Pompeium, whom Cicero designedly omits to name.

 

