(secoro onumen uenires onrnrrn. 185

2. Seminarium Catilinam, ¹‘ α Goiiiioorioo ourserp ‚¹³¹ i. e.
for bringing up young Catilines3 men resembling Catilius in principles
andmorals. Cfseuzinorium pomarium,&c. Madvig reads Ooiili-

uorum.
3. Sibi isti . . .. volunt. See Z. 408, in fin.
6. Nisi. Ironically. Z. 526.
t. Idcirco quon. Idcirco and ideo = “for this reason‚'’
and refer either to a preceding statement or o succeeding one. They

sometimes refer to a following quod, puio, or quonium. Tho order
may be inverted, and quod, dcc. precede. Sometimes ideo and idcirco
refer to a purpose to be afterwards stntcd by ui, quo ; oe, ui ne. The
forms si ...sirium etsi....idciroo; pepnesi....ideirco‚ ere
common. Ideo also occurs with this reference to sconditiouel sen-
tence.

Cn. iri-10. scortorum cohortem praetoriam. Scorto here
=eiuodi; those just before called impuri impudicique. Cohors
pretorio was ihe neme applied to the body of men which was partic-
ularly appointed to attend on the commender, und which was com-
posed of soldiers of tried bravery.

13. Gladiatori iili confecto. Contemptuously of Catilius. Do·
uatus, od Ter. Euo. V. 4, 4, citing ihis passage says, proprie hoe oer-
bum (confectus) convenii gladiatoribus iis, qui gravissimis vulneribus
occubuerunt.

14. naufragorum ejectam. .. menum. Compare note on p.
17, lina 38. Ejisere is often used of one who is wroeked and cest
upon the shore. Virg. AEn. l, 578: Si quibus ejectus siliis out urbi-
buserrot.

16. Urbes coloniarum ac municipiorum = orbes, scilicet
coloniae oc inuuicipiu ,¹ i. e. urbes denotes the gemis, and colonie and
municipio the species. Cf. Or. 11, 15, 63: Consu cel coriis vel su·
pieuiiae oei ieroeriioiis,¹ where casus, sapientia, temeritas, are the
species of the gertus carisa. M. Z. iis-Respondebam = pares
erunt od resistendum resisum, opponentur ; “ will be o ruoich for.¹’
cf. pro Flacco, 40, 100: Septimio ei Golia tosiihus P. Servilius ei
Q. Meteilus , ...repugnabam Asiatico jurisdictioni urhooo juris-
dictio respondebit. The notion is thet of drawing up one line of sol·
diers opposite to another, so that euch ouswers or corresponds to a per-
ticnlar portion of the enemy’s line.

17. 'reminis silvestribus; which Catilius gave out thet he
would occupy, for tho purpose of carrying on a guerille warlare;
such localities as cowards flee to who seek lnrlringplaces for ambus-
cedes, and dare not give battle in the open plain. So Liv. 27, 20:
spiriolus oroi siluestris, quem Huunihol insidiis quoru sustris upiio-
reru esse crediderat. Schiitz. ’

18. ornamenta = all the necessary equipments, the whole op·

16*

1¹⁸3·

 

