onnrrou ron o. arsamus. 285

(d) He irr a few words allodes to the glory which Carsar lias already obtained
by the preservation and pardon of Marcellus d, 37) ; anri frrrally,
(e) Deseribcs the praisc, which the attributes of mercy and compassion win.

<t ³⁸)
4. In conclusion, the orator leaves tire entire cause to snesnr's own reflec-

tions, and only reminds him that, by preserving Ligarius, he will at the
same tirrre preserve the happiness and welfare of many ruore⁴

Pes
Cn, I.——Novum crimen. ironicaily, as if he bad said, “A mon-75

strous charge this, Cesar, thet Ligarius was in Africa! (as if you had
not pardoncd even your Pharsalian foes before now 3) and what is
worse stili, Pansa, no mean authority, has had the hardihood,trustinr„r,
no doubt, to his intimacy with you, (as nothing less could warrant such
aeornrnunicatiou,) to consess this fact! 1 arn, therefore, eorrrpictely
at a lose3 for (as no one could defend) 1 was prepared to deny the
charge, which being so new (ie. notorious), you, of course, could
have no means os learning, either of yourself or from other sources’¹
M‘Kay. Cf Quinctiae, l, 38 and 703 9, 2, 503 ll, l, 78.

2. Inauditum. Beneche, Soldan, Madvig, and others read aon
auditam, as found in Quinctil. 11,3,108; and some MSS. Beneche
thinks that the separation of the negative particle gives it prorninenoe
and sharpens tho irony-Propinquus virens. So ch. 3, b 8: adole-
secntis propinqui. Tho elder Tubero appears to have married into the
“gens 'Pultia’' Cf. ch. 7, 213 and nd Alf. 13, 21). He here refers
to this relationship obviously to show that his predilection should be in
favor of the accuser, end, therefore, that his confidence must be great
in the irrnoeence of Isigonus—Q, AElins Tubero, having sailed in his
charge against Ligarius, devoted himself exclusively to the study of
jurisprudence. He was a writer on public and private lew, and is
often mentioned in the Digest.

3. In Africa fuisse. Cicero carefully extenuatos the act of Li-
gorius, and makes no allusion to his having taken rip arms against
Caesar, which doubtless formed the gravcst part of Tubero's charge.-
C. Pansa. C. Vibius Pensa was consul with Hirtius, e. u. c. 711. He
died at Bononia (Boiogna), from a wound received in the first battle
with Antony, near Mullus (Modena). When tribune of the people,
a. u. c. 703, he, with his colleague Canus, opposed the deeree of the
senate to appoint asuccessor to Caesar in the command of the province
of Gaul. 'Phe intimacy and affection which existed between him and
Caesarmay be learned from ad Fam. 6, 12. That the words pro-
stunti eir iugenio are spoken without irony, appears also stom the
same epistle.

4. Faetus . . . . ausus est. The force which these words add to
the irony of the passage should be noticed. Audeo and noa dubito,
when not used merely as auxiliaries for sorm's sake, but with fnll and
emphatic meaning, are put before their infinitivo.

 

