enarrer roa r. auarus MILO. 381

Pege
rth, From his hopes os impunity.
And the evidence. upon which these circumstances are alleged, are the words
aad actions of the deceased
The conclusion oi the whole is, Milo acted in seltdctence, and Clodius iras

lawsnlly killed,

Cri. 1.-1. Fortissimo· Compare Vell. Patere. 2, GH: (Milo) 107
ultro fortem terizerurioe.

2. Timere. See p¹ Deiot, 1, 1, and the references there given.
lllnch of this hlud ol langoage we may regan] as mere rhetorical art.
In the present instance there was real cause lor sear, and real sear. For
the tribunes had held hostile meetings against nino, and had errdeavored
to excito the people against Cicero too, lor so tvarrnly undertaking the
defende ol Milo3 and so lar succeeded, that not only Milo bnt Cicero
also was hated by the greatest part ol tho populace. The unusual
preparations too, to prevent distnrbanee, added to his alarm. When

cero began to spealr the partisans ot Clodius commenced a threaten·
ing outcry, sor the purpose ol intimidatiog him, and could not be res
otrained even by lear ottho arined soldiers who were stationed around.
Compare, on this exordium, Quinctil. 11, 3, 47, sq.

5. Novi judicii. The trial oi Milo was extraordinary‚ by a spc-
cial commissori, instead ol before the established tribuuals. Pompey,
on being appointed consul without a colleagoe, issued an edict that
no one should carry any weapon in the city, and in a lew days pro-
posed new projects of law in the senate, two ol which, aster a dcereo
ol the senate, he promulgated to the people. One law was de ai,
and expressly eomprehended the murder which hod been perpetra·
ted on the Appian read, the burning of the curia, and the assault
upon the house of tho interrex dl. Lepidus The other law ivos
dr orribile. These laws heightened tho punishment, and abridged
the judicia] process They limited tho taking of the testimony to
three days, confined the speeches ot the accuser and the accused to
oue and the same day, allotviug the former two, the latter three
hours. For the trial of Milo, Pompey carried through a bill, that
the people should elroose a qrrresitor troni the number ol the consu·
lares. L. Domitius Ahenobarbus was chosen. Also the other judices
appointed by Pompey were ol such a character, that there was but
oue voice, that never had more eminent or more conscientious men
been appointed judges.-Nooo fornia. The shops were shut through·
out the irlrole city, soldiers posted in the sorum, and at all the entran-
ees to the sorum, and Pompsy with a select guard toolr his station be-
fore the aerarium. When Cicero began to speaky the Clodian t'action
set up an outery and clamor. They were not even deterred hythe
guard os soldiers.

6, Quocunque inciderunt. Z. 521‚Note.- Consuetudinem
Al. veterem consternantem.

 

