330 NOTES.

iisdem number, and case, when properly they should stand as the object

in the genitive. cl. p. tllil. 36, 99: Qurc si ooo cepit odlioz'o lor cujus
rei, &a So regularly ox (in) co mamere (genere), where if an ad-
jective clause follows, qai (quc) stands with the plural. Cf. p. Arola
1231.

33. Nudum saltavisse. In Pison. 10: Qauic ipse nudus in
convivio satiarem p. lllurou. fi, 13: Nemo eninr fere callot solitus,
nisiforte iiis-anit ..... nequa in convicio vindemio atque honesto.
Hence appears the insamy attached by the Romans to dunciug. Sea
Dar. Antiq. Sacrario, iu fila—Nudum. Thiuly clad, the outer gar-
ment tlrrown off. So Virg. Goorg. 1, 299: Nudus ora, aere audire,
where nudus answcrs to the papati in Hesiod's verse, lrom which this
is taken—Crux. This punishment was chiefly iuflicted on slaves and
the worst kind of malefactore. See Dici. Antip. Cunx.

35. Omnes iu illo sunt rege virtutes. Madvig: regie virtutes.

37. rar—aganas, as below frugi, is said of a man who hy discre-
tron, conscientionsneSS, and diligence, qualilies himself to he uselul in
practical lise, in opposition to neqzrmu, like xpooror. Doed.

38. uegern. The common text gives reges. On tho singular,
see Z. p. 258, Note t-Fingi. The dative ot frua used adjectively
instead of singulis, und osten applied to faithful slaves.

39. Fortem, &a For-torn, in sacing dangers 3 jactum, in giving
every man his own; socerum, in being swayed neither by prayers nor
hrihes from rectitude; gravem, in maintaining eqnanimity of temper,
neither elated too nrnclr by prosperity, nor depressed by adversityg
iizagnanimam, in loohing with disdain on all the petty greatness of
common men3 largam, in exhibitinp bonutifnl liberality3 beneficam,
in doing good sor its own sake; and liberalem, in bestowiug witha
noble and generons spirit.

40. Hae....illa. Z. 372.

41. Illa privata est. F rngality is the virtue of the subject, tha
former κατ’ ἓξοχήν of the king 3 and to obviate any mistake he defines
it by vitodeszz'mn et temperantiam. Manutius thinks Cicero insincere
in this praise, and that he calls thc cause tenuem et inopem, in allu-
sion to this stinginess.

43. Hreo . . . . ab ineunte etate. He reasons thus: Deiotarus
was engaged from his youth up, in performing all the public arrd pri-
vate dnties os a monarch. Such persons are not likely to disgraeo
then old age by dancing. Theresore‚ neither did Deiotarus.

92 l. Α cuncta Asia, i. e. incolis Asiae minoris h. e. Phrygiae, ulysiae,
Cariae, Lydiae ς and therefore the preposition. Z. 451. On the repe-
tition of the proposition, see note on p. 18, line 5. The common text
is tam a cartola Asia.

2. negotiati sunt. See note on p. 51, line 30.

3. Multis ille quidem. Benecke, Soldan, and Klotz: midae

 

