Norae.

THE FOUR ORATIONS AGAINST oATILINE,

GENERAL INTRODUCTION,

Cariam, L. Saucius* the descendant of an ancient patrician family which
had sunlr into poverty‚ first appears in history as a zealous partisan of Sulla.
During the horrore 01 the great proscription, among many other victims, he
killed, with his own hand, his brother-in-law, Q. Caecilius, described as a
quiet, inoffensivc man, and having saiaed and tortured the well-hnown and
- popular nl. illarius Gratidianus, the kinsrnan and tellow-townsman of Cicero,
cut 011 liis head, and bore it in triumph through the city. Plutarch accuses
him in two places (Sall. 32, Cic. itt) of having niurdered his own brother
at tire same period, under circumstances 01 peculiar atrocity, but tharsis
probably some confusion here between tha brother and the brother-indam
for Sallust, when enumerating the crimes of Catilina, would scarcely have
failed 10 add such a monstrans daed as this 10 the blaclr catalogue. Although
his youth was spent iu the most rechless extravagauce, and in the open
indulgence of every vice; although lre was known to have been guilty 01
various acts 01 the foulest and most revolting debaucbery; although he had
incurred the suspicion of an intrigue with the vestal Fabia, sister of Terentia;
and although it was said and believed that he had made away with his first
wife and afterwards with his son, in order that he might wed the fair aud rich
but worthless Aurelia Orestilla, who objected to the presence 01 0 grown-up
step-child, yet this complicated infamy appears to have formed no har to his
regular political advancemerrt,-for he attained to the dignity of prffltor in a. c.
68, was governor 01 Africa during tlte following year, and returned to Roma
in 66, 111 order to presa his suit for the consulship. The electiori for 55 was
carried by P. Autronius Patris and P. Cornelius Sulla, both of whom were
soon after convicted of bribery‚ and their places supplied by their competitore
and accusem, L. Aurelius Cotta aud L. Manlius Torquatus3 Catilina, who was
desirousof becominr,¹ a candidate, having been disqualifred in consequenceof au
impeachment 101 oppression in his province, preferred by P. Clodius Pulcher,
afterwards so celebrated as the implacable enemy of Cicero. Exasperated
by their disappointment, Autronius and Catilina forthwith formed a projeci
along with a certain Cn, Calpurnius Piso, ayoung man of high family, but
turbuleut, needy, and profligate, 10 murder the new consuls upon tha first 01
ianuam, when 01101111,Γ up their vows in the Capitol. after which Autronius
an'd Catilina were to seiza the fasces, and Piso was to be dispatched with an
army to occupy the Spains. Some rumors 01 what was in contemplation
having been spread abroad, such precautions were taken that tha conspiratura
were induced to delay the execution of their plau until tha 511101 February,
resolving at the same time to include many of the leading men of the state iu
the proposed massacre. This ertraordinary design is said to have been fnis-
trated solely by the impatienca ofCatiline, who, upon the appointed day, gava
the signal prematnreb, before the whole of the armed agents had assembled,

'³ This account of the career of Catilina is the article under that head intha
“Dictislary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythorogya

 

