FOURTH ORATION AGAINST CATILINE.

ANALYSIS.

i. In the introductiun Ciecro thanhs tire senate ior the hind feeling and con·
cern which they had shown ior his saiety, and entreats them, without re·
gard to his person, to consider only the weiiare oi the state. nt the same
time, entare oi the dangers which threaten him, lre testifies his anxiety ior
his family, and urges upon the senate continued watchiulness. (Ch. 1, p 1-5.]

2. The main proposition is, that the crime oi the conspirators detnands severe
and speedy punishment. niter again describing the magnitude oi the crime
he (a) states the different opinions in the senate respecting the punishment
oi the critninels,-—thet oi Silenus ior their punishment hy death, and oi Cae-
ser ior their imprisunmcnt ior iiie: [ty he exuirrines these two opinions, ane
while he praises the seenringly milder opinion oi Caesares less hazardous,
he deiends that oi Silanus as more adwrntageous to the state* tc) he
refutes those who were afraid that the sentence oi capital punishment could
not he carried into execution, end shows that he has abundant resources
ior carrying it into effect. since eil tire orders oi the stete are ready to
sustain him. (Ch, 3, y 5-ch, hp tl.)

³. In conclusion, he calls upon the senate to vote with decision and courege
ior the opinion oi Silenus, expresses his satisfaction with the honors he has
already attained commends his semily to the protection oi the state. and
ashs no other return ior the henehts he has eumenen upon his country hut
iis grateful recollection. (Ch. 8, i ti-end.)

Cn. 1.-e. Ora atque oculos. Descriptive os the anxiety withige&
which eli were waiting to see which of the opinions respeciing the
punishment os the conspiraters Cicero would lavor.

3. Depulsum sii, sc. a vobis et a re publice, sumto de sociis Ca-
titinae supplicio.

5. Voluntas. Kind feeling. But as Cicero refers to this es
prompting their anxiety for his welfore, he uses deperite, which prop-
erly refers to sollicitudinem implied. So hl.

12. Non forum, in quo omnis aequitas continetur· Sc pro
Mur. h 31: deque eo pauco disserent ; neque enim carten in hoc con-
tinetur. The usual meaning of contineri in reis io be contined within
any thing: contineri re = positure erse in re; co eron-i, ex ea
pendere. Z. 452. Muretus remarks that Livy (40, 10) has imitated
this passage, where he mulies Perseus say, Quo enini ulie confugiam,
coi rien—doinus, nun epuire, non nox uri quietern tiolo noinrae beneficio
emolimenta est? hinret. V. L. 19, 14. (lepronianum. Μ.

lCicero catis the Forum the seat of justice because in it the courts oi
aiv were held.

13. consularibus auspiciis consecratus. See pro Mor. 1.

18*

 

