enarrou roa r. auuras anno. 429

Pa
Carios‚ornneaqueeor‚qni tec aa minimistuntasecerunt. Com-122⁶t

parc note on p.15, lino 20. On fruendo, see Z. 436 aud 657.

25. Illa portenta. Iu Pison. 4, U, Cicero calls Clodius solute
portentum prodigiumque rei pollice ,· aad, de prov. Cana. 1, 2, tho
consuls, Piso and Gabinius, are described as diro rei publice .. . por-

tento oe pune flauere. So in our passage, Heumann tahes illu por-
tanto as = ejus generis consceleratos atque exsecrabiles homines,
Schiitz, on the other hand, supplies neruorum with portento, and re-
fers it to the following Erznripet‚ &c—Laryuehuatur. Loqui vvith the
accusative = to prate of, generally iu Cicero with the notion of con-
tempt. Cf. od Aac. 9, 2, 3, nitu aiei classes loquens et eeu-enus.
Hor. Serui. 1, 3, 12, niodo reges alque tetrarchas, omnia inagna lo-
quens.

26. nrumpet. This word Cicero had already applied to tho hur-
ried departuro ol Catilina horn the city. 2 in Cot. 1, Ι. By asurgit
here, the eneruies of Milo rneant to suggest a parallel between him aud
that conspirator.

27. Miseros interdum cives. Z. noa-Optime dc . neri-
tos Deserviug best at the hands of3 having best served.

30. admisisset aliquid· Cf. 13, 34, and 37, 133.

Cu. xxm-ae. Quint Z. reu-Qua posteo sunt iu eum con-
gesta, a circumlocution sor, the suhseqnent charges against hirn.

33. Conscientia. Anablative of tho causc; but compare Z. 472,
Note 1, and 645: “under the eonsciousuess‚” or “is hervero con·
scions os.'' Ernesti conjectured in mediocrium delict. conscientia.

34. Sustinuit? immo vero. See nota on p. 9, line 13.

35. Pro nihilo putavit. Ζ. 394, Note 3.

3⁷. † Frenorum. Tho reading hero is doubtful. Lambinus pro-
posed frornearutn. Garatoni conjectures, since Hispanorum occurs,
gladiorum Hispanorum pilorurnque; and supposes Hispanorum spo-
rorurn, frenorum, and sadracarum may be varieties of one aud tho
sarno wmd. Steinmetz brackets both frenorum and sputorum, Klotz
and supfle read furorneatoruan pilorumque.

38. Multitudo deprehendi posse indicabatur. The personal
construction of verba dicendi in the passive voice is sometimes, as here,
oxtended to other verbs which denote a peculiar and special kind of
soping, rhotoing, bellovagum. See Z. fior. But the impersonal
construction in this case is mora common.

39. Vicum. Vicus from oleos, as uinum from οἶνος, correspond-
ing to wiclt in bailiwich, is not aprincipal street, but a collection ο.
hoases, a und orqaarter of the city, the subdivision ot a regia—An-
giportura is according to Festus: iter compendiariam in oppido.

40. Miloni· The dative of the possessor; aud this seems to be
the origin uf the dative with passive verbs, sor the ablativo with ob.
Z. 413 and tao-lu vittam Ocriculanam. A villa of Milo's, near

 

