too noras.

{geaneruen erpremed, and how a simple result? Ζ. 532Δ What ie the

position os non when it belongs toa single werd os the proposition?
Z. 799. Compare page 16, linea tt} and 41, What is the common
construction ol videri?

43. tenid ego tc invitem. What is implied in such questions?
aoso-111 this line, sor isse videaris Klotz and Madvig read esse
videaris.

Η. Ad Forum Aurelium· Alittle town in Etruria, between
the rivers Armenta (Flere) and lllarta, net sar from the sea; now
called Monte Alto, It was named probably from some Aurelius, who
paved the oie ilar-etin from Rome to Pisa. What is denoted by orl
when joined with names ol towns? Ζ. 398, Note.

16 1. Praestolarentnr. Z. 413. The prestolans vrraitssore person
in order to perform services sor him, and stands in subordinate relation
to the person waited tor. Dederlein.

2. Diom- On the gender of this word, see Z. 86, Note—Aquilam
illam argenteam, &e The allusion is supposed to be to, tho Eeglo,
which Sallust mentions, in speaking of the engagement: Ipre cnut
libertis et colonis propter aquilam adsistit, quarn tetta Chabriae 0.
lllarias ia exercita tabuisse dicebatur. cneo. On militarystan-
dards among the Romans, see Dia. ef Gr. aad Rem. antiqu, Sioua
Mrmrumn. An ensign which, like this, had been so long borne by
the victorious armies of alarius, was regarded with unusual revercncc,
as promising certain victory. Cicero adds scelerum to lirnit saa-arium,
the place where it was kept, because there Catilina preserved the in-
struments of his crimes, and his character was such that there was
nothing religIons in his ceremonies, but all was wicked and crinriual.
It is explained in the last clause.

4. Sacrorum. ‘¹ Nom erat etiam qaum signorum militariam
omnium, tarn aquilae quedem religio, et in sacello illei-aporiaban-
tar? M.

Cn. Χ.-1(). Neque enirn. ZSOH. Ι

11. Haec res, i. e. bellam contre patriam. Manat. Benecke
refers it to his departure from Romo.

13. Nunquam,..non modo...sedne...quidem. weh,
and 754, Nora-ortam :peace is osten ceutrasted with bellam.
Compare below otiosorum.

15. atque is here explicetive, perditio being explained by what
follows.

16. nerelictis. De strengthens the simple. Z. 327.

lt· Perfruere, &e A climax is here to be noticed.

20. oreartati snnt· Here used pessiuely, as the participle fre-
quently is. Z. 632, and compare erar-Qui feruutur = qui aar·
inunitae celebrentur, commemorentur. Pro Sall. 23, dd: Ejus voces,
ejas mine ferebantur. ut-Lalores tui. Cf. pro Get. d 12.

 

