436 nores.

{lily 2. college. Octavius, the oolleugue os Ti. Gracchus in the tri·

huneship, opposed his Agrarian law, and had a right by his veto to
prevent the reading of it hesore the people. They opposed each other
with honorahle wmpons, with the power of eloquendo, without per·
sonal ebuso. Bnt Gracchus ivus oonrpelled to find a means of settirrg
asido his opponent who ivns nnyielding in his opposition. 'Fhongh the
person oi a trihurro was inviolnhle (sacrosanctus), he had his eolleugue
dismissed horn his office hy tho people. 'l'hat was a seditions pro-
oeeding, and tho propte had no right and no reason to depose him.
The only justitiention Gracchus could bring sor his measure iiras po-
litienl necessity. Ii the end justified tho meane, Grneehus needed no
delente, hnt deserved the highest pruise os a determined statesman;
hut it is eertain, that, with only the appearance of legal right, he de·
stroyed a wise regulation oi tho Roman state, und in his nohle efforts,
which the present nge better understands and appreeiates thanen enr-
lier‚ committed a rnistahe, whioh is so much the more sad, as nporr
the Roman horizon the morning oi a day dawned, in whieh law and
justice were silenced. Compare note on p. 9, line 20.

3. Interfectores· Servilius Ahala and Scipio Nasica.

5. Net'andnm adulterium. See eh. 5, 13. Nesuudum gravius
est, quam nefarium, propter pollutam religionem, que ipsum adnl-
terio incesti nomen adjunxit, et propter insolentiam iocinoris ao novi·
tatem3 de qua Cic. Herusp. 3: etenira illos (deos) eu scelere uiolauit
que izemo antee. Sed paulo post est neser-ium stuprum euru oerore
gorrizana. sed ne stupra quidem legibus vetIta nefaria Cio· appellare
solebat, nisi crimen aliquod vulgaribus flagitiis gravius inesset. Cr. in
Pison. t, 9 : Ab eudem herniae, iu stupris inauditio (quum saera Bo-
nae deae adulterio violavit) nefariisque (sororis germanae) vorate.

6. nobilissime. Vestal virgins and noble matrons who had as·
sembled at Casar's honse, to perform the riies ol the goddess Caesor
was Pontifex Maximus.

7. Religiones expiandas· See de Harusp. resp. 12, 13.

8. Cum sorore germano. retornus had three sistam, the yonn-
gest of whom and the one here intended, was married to L. Lucullus.
Elsewhere Cicero speaks of Clodius's being guilty of the same eritne
with his other sisters.

9. 1.. Lueullns juratus. On his return from the third Pontio
war, he discovered the gnilt of his wile, and repndiated her. The oc-
casion os the testimony referred to was the trial os Clodius (eh. 5, 13)
A. u-c. tua—Jonas. Z. dua—Questunttos habitis. The slaves
oi Clodia were put io the torture.

10. Civem. Cicero himself.

12. Serworum arm1s exterminavit. Ch. 14, 363 ia Pisonru.

13. Regna dedit, ademit. Through Clodins's influenoe, exerted
sor a hribe, Brogitarus ot Galatia, son-in-law of Deiotarus, was made

 

