snooun orsrrou eosrusr canuno. 183

44. AEtate. ¹.autfertum=pratenonuai vireetetztztateqo124
dem sint, sed non exhausta.

3. accessoriis, dre. Gotzznam (inconsulatns petitione))sti··25
potum choro juventutis, nullatum indicibus utque sicariis. ..cir-

cumfluentem colonorum Arretinorum et Fcesnlonorum exercitu. Pro
tiaran. 6 49. Klotz reads qnos Faernus,- Madvig, quos Sulla conuti-
tait-Universae. This adjective is often used in agreement with the
noun, where we should use an adverbial expression, as “ in general,’¹ or
“ on the whole? The same is true in Latin ol many other adjectives.

5. Ιιι insperatis ao repentinis pecuniis = quom inoperatus et
repentinos pecuniae adepti essent. The proposition in denotes rather
the continuiug state, the ahl. alone would express the cause or ground.
Appian, Β. Cin. 2, 2, p. 177: περιέπεμπεν ἒς τῶν selinunteus κέρδη τῆς
rire tias ἀναλωκότας καῖ ὀρεγομένους ἔργον ipolito. M.

't- Lectius, &o The lecticae were a marli of opulente, requiriug
many lecticarii, &c They answered ιο o splendid equipage in our
days See Dict. Antip, anrros.

13. seo eos hoc¹ moneo. Z. 440. With a substantive, moneo
in Cicero regularly takes de.

14. Dictaturas cogitare, i, e. to dream that dictatorships (and
tlte lirense os Sullu’o daps) will come back again—The illo temporo
(= those days), the days of Snlla's dictatorship.

15. Inustus torcihly expresses the violence and duration of the
suffering

16. Non modo homines· Supply the negative predicate of the
following clauso Z.,.724b

Cn X.-18. Quartum genus...qn1, &c Cf. od Quint. fratr.

, 11, 12: Deinde en eo genere civium, poi nes snrnrnc necessitudine
attingant. So Agr. 2, 14, 37: Quum er eo nurnero qni per eos on-
nes consulesfuernnt multi mortni sint. Z. 366, iu fin.

19. ,Iampridem premuntur· How ιο be construedi P. 0413

21. Qui . . . ‚permulti Z. 430.

22. Vadimonfis, judiciis, proscriptionibus. The exact order
of procedure is here observed: sor, first, the creditor took hail of the
debtor3 secondly, if the dehtor sailed to make his appearance, the cred-
itor was put iu possession 3 thirdly‚ r the creditor remalned in posscs-
sion thirty days, the property was proscrihed. Mutet.

23. Et ex urhe et ex agris. For the repetition of the preposi-
tion, see note on page 18, line 5,

24. infitiatores lentos. Lentus isa slew pavor. Infitiotnres
lenti are persons who put off paying their debts hy dcnying wholly, or
in part, that they are just dehis.

25. Primum, not followed hy deinde, occurs 1 Fin. 6, it, and in
several other passages-St stare nen possunt. With reference to
cacillant, line 21.

 

