354 uerus.

{pigneranda which had been burut with the archives (tabularium) al the

tirno ol tho Social war.

26. Italico bello. Called also sociat, aad, from the Marsi who
began it, hlersic. See Schmitz, Rome, ch. xxvii.

28. Dicere, qnaercrc. On the omission ol the conjunction, seo
Ζ, ἹΒΙ. Notice also tho clirecus and anaphora in the arrangement
of the period-De herpinum inemorio locere, literarum tricenarium
flagitare. Hernicum eremorio = quoe homines sacta meminerunt ot
testantur: literarum rizelam-io = memoria rei literis prodita.

30. rrrtegcrrimi municipii⁵ i. o. Heraclia, which, according to

· these words, rnust¹ previously to the delivery ol this speech, have been
changed srom a civitas foderato into a iurveicipiom. Heraclia ro-
mained selthlul to Rome during the Sociol war, whence the epithet
integerrimum. But it had rnnch to suffer sor this.

31. Ea, erice· Nauck: eo pare, dec. parentheticelly.

33. An domicilium collocavit! The objectionis “oo dote.
non laeuo,‘¹ and the orrsroor is blendod, as it were, into one sentence
with it, by the qui, dcc. It implies that the objection doec not deservo
a jormal orrswer: the answer may be gathered from the statement.
Ii sormollp given as an answer, it would be something of this sort:
At (= brit, yon say) in I tolio dorcic. non lrrrbait. Imo acro lot orz-
nis, &a Cf. de Dibio. 2, 49, 102: nepote ignorant eo, quc eh ipeir
constituto ct designato enim = neque ignorant futare, lico caim
adipeis, &e Stiirenburg and Madvig: oo domicilium Romo oon
hahuit ie ozri, &c

35. An non, &a Nauck: Ac eoo eet proferres l

36. lis taurins, sc. Metelli—Quo solo, in antithesis to the rec-
orde of Appius and Gabinius mentioned below. WhIch, from the time
ol that registration, and of the then college of praetore, alone have the
authority of public records. The reason is added immediately below.

Cn. V-39. Appii. Appius Claudius Pulcher. He was the ie-
ther ef the notorious P. Clodius, end praetor in the year Α. u. c. 665, in
which the lez Plautio Papirio vves carried. He vves tha colleague
of Q. Metellus Pius-Negligenline esser-oete. So that lorgeries
might easily be introduced into them.

40. Gabinii. Gabinius was pretor in thesame year as Appius,
and uvas afterwards sound guilty ol ertortion in his province of Achaia.
Dio. io Cocil. 20, 64.-Quuodie incolumisfoil. So long os he iiras
free from missortune; that is, previous to his condemnation.-Post
derelictionem columitas. Alter his condemnation his difficulties or
downsalh vwhich east suspicion or distrust upon his previous acte.
Weishe’s interpretation, that he, aster his condemuation, had aecess
to the lists and inserted iorgeries for money, in order to retrieve his
ruined fortune, seems ont ol place here-Levitae. His recklessuess or
corruption.

 

