onmes Fon Τ. erimus MILO. 423

suspicion and not romain inactive, may have attached himself to the 1Ξὲ

opposite party as a good citizen.

18. nugarum nihil. Nugae, like the Greek λῆρος, is used of
persons, od Q. frat. l, 2, 43 Sest. 10, 24. So quisquiliis, Seot. 43,
94. Negarem uiuit = nullos homines leves et nugatorios, h. l. ver·
santes in artibus ludicris, quas tractare gravi viro indignum esset;
jesters, buffoons. '

19. Pueros symphoniacos. Artioles of luxury and ornament
were mostly denoted by Greek names, e, g. anagnostes, authepsa, bap·
tisterium, chrysendeta, lychnuchus3 as iu modern times French lash-
ions ond French names mark corresponding objeets. The Romans
had to learn elegante from the Greeks, we from the F rench. Sing-
ing boys were taken by the Roman grandees on their journeys, to re-
lieve by music the tediousness ol the journey3 and to euoid the ap-
pearance os effeminaey, the preterit ruas made, that they belonged to
the retinue of their wives.

20. Ancillarum greges A Roman domina was surronnded by'
an army of female slaves, ench of whom had her special duty. Cf.
Juu. Sui. 6, 495 sqq. The slaves in attendanoe upon the wives of
Indinn nabobs may surnish some parallel-Qui . . . . duceret for quum
is. . . duceret.

21. Neminem, nisi ut, i. e. nisi tales omnes, ut, dre-Virum o
viro lectum esse. The Roman soldiers were permitted, when going
on a dangerous semies, to choose their cornredes. Ci. Liv. 9, 39 3 10,
38. This iras not merely an Etruscan or Italian custom, but also in
use among other ancient natione, as the Greeks and Persians. Xen.
Cyrop. l, 5, 55 Corn. Nep. Pons. l, 2: Neminem nisi, elec.J then =
nerninem nisi selectos (gladiatores). His were picked men.

25. Mulier. See ob. 33, 39, borno effeminatus. Cic. in Clod.
et Cur: 5: neem rusticos ei (Clodio) nos uideri rezinus est rnz'rundum,
qui inanitatem tunicum ei mitram et purpureos fuscius babere non
, · possumus. To cero festivus, tn elegans, tu solus arbones, quem de-
cet muliebris orosius, quem incessus psaltria, qni fferninare vulture,
utrennore nocem, levore corpus potes—Nee nero, &a blito was
obliged, ior his own secnrity, to keep a band of gladiatore, Cf. 14, 38.

27. Semper ilie· Paulo negligentius locutus est Cicero, eodem
pronomine modo Milonem, modo Clodium designans. Quare ille post
seraper delendum censebat Garat-Quantum interesset P. Clodii.
Z. 449. Os. 12.

werno. Cfi13,35.

30. Propositam et poene addictam· The allusion is to esaie,
where an object is first set up end then ltnoeleed deren, assigned to,
the highest bidder.

32. Martemque communem. Oornrnnuis Mors est, qni non
unam portem, sed utramque, modo hanc modo illem, adjuvat, alle-

 

