416 ueras.

{3⁸0 in almost all the MSS. without variation, and Matthiae defends thom,

us making more ridiculous the excuse of those ratio maintained that
Clodius had no means of hnowing. Scilicet = doubtloss, omnes Le·
novior making au antithesis to the oue named, Τ. Patina.
10.U11dequaes1viti ex quonam quesivit? Notice also how
uude is dislodged from its position at tho head of its clausa—Quest-
crit sune. Ζ. 529. So also corruperit below.

ll. (ὶ. Arrius. meus amicus. Some consider ineas arnicas as
snid with bitter irony. But Cicero, in Vatia. 12, 30, calls Q. Arrius
seruiliaris ruens, and nd Q. fret. l, 3, 8, when cornplaining of him
and Hortensius, indicates friendly relations with him. Anticatones,
scurriliuris rrreus, eir fortissimus, aud the like, are rather corupii·
montary additions, without their snll nreurring.

12. corruperit. Though Cicero asserts that Milo had no means
of hnoiving the return of Clodius from Aricia, yet, forargumeut's sake,
he admits that he might have hrihed a slave of Clodius to inform him.
He then produces the testimony of Clodius's witnesses‚ to prove that
no such information could have been give113 his (Clodins’s) return to
Rome being contrary to his intention¹ and owing to a circumstance
that it iras impossible to semeae—Legite testimonie The testimony
had been previously tehen. Cossinius Schola was brought as witness
against Milo on the first day. The Clodiane created great disturbauee,
aad Pompey set a guard iu tho forum. The taking oitmtirnony, there·
fore, ou the two following days passed without disturbauces. On the
fourth orfijtlt day, with regard to which there is some discrepancy,
the arguments of the parties were held, and the sentence prouounced.

13. C. Cossinius Schola. On the occasion of his trial for vio-
lating the mysteries of tho Bona Dea, Clodius attempted to prove an
olibi by means of this Cossinius-Interamnatius. Α native of Inter-
amna. There were several towns ol this name iu Italy. The one
supposed to be here nreant was on the Nar iu Umbria, and is now
called Terni. The distance of it from Rome is abent eighty Roman
miles. Cicero allodes to the false testimony es Cassinius nrt Att. 2, 1,
and p. deero, 30, Sl), and on that trial was brought as a witness to dis-
prove it

14. Eadem hora. Ironically. It may appear strange that Gi-
cero should lesseu the credit of this witness, at the very time that he
is quoting him to make out a point for himself, viz. that the return of
Clodius being accidenter, could not have been known by Milo. But it
is enough for his present purpose, that his opponeuts admit the truth
of the testimonies by which he convicts then] of chargiug himself and
Milo falsely. He afterwards shows that the evidence was salse, and
this remark on Cossinius leads the hearerto expect as much.

15. Iu Albano. In the beautiful country around the ancient

Alba Longa, there were numerous splendid villas3 one of Pompey‚

 

