80 runs your design your snbsoquent conduct provee. For ue soon ao you
found yoursolf excludcd, you withdrew to Pompoy. Fulsely boust
then, if yon wlll, that hnd you been allowed to land, you would have
delivered Africa to Cmsnr3 for it only sets your treachery in astronger
light.

Cn. vlle-28. Eum. L. Tubero, the father.

20. Apud ipsum te = npud eum ipsum, cnjus . . . . interfuit, id
est opud le. Ipse procedes ns being the leading notion, und the pcr-
sonnl prorrourr follows as explanatory.

31. Esset etiam probata· Quia non honestum fuisset, injussu
senalus earn Caesari traderer Vel secundum proverbium: Proditio-
nem nino, proditorem odi.

32. Non tam. Klotz and Soldnn from Mss. read non tem prop-
ter id, ne, &e

34. veniebatis. Yon attempted to enter. Z. 500, Note.

35. Unam ex omnibns. Unus is joined with the partitive
genitive only when it means the one in reference to alter or elteri
(olins), &c Otherwise in prose we find, sor the most part, tenueere
orde-Huic victorie. Pharsalicre. Hortatorem: victoriaeque
nunc nobis gruta estg or victorine, qnam Caesar, qni hie adest, conse·
cntusest. Ι

36. Rex potentissimus. ana, son of Hiempsal, und king of
Numidia according to some ς of Mauritania, or both, ¹according to oth·
ers. The hostility of Africanas owing to its early connection with
Pompey, who found in ana one of his most zealous adherente.

37. conventus firmi atque magni. Powerful and important
districts or couutries. Others, omitting the comma aster nolenter,
construe as geuitives singular. But Cicero is euumerating the diffi-
culties with which Gaesar had to contend in Africa. These are the
unfriendliness of Juba, the hostility of the province, and the cenventus
firmi etque magni, which some understand of the Roman citizens
there congregated for business. ·

38. Quid facturi fuIstis. Z. 498.

39. Dubitern. P. 0. 4243 Ζ. 530. Benecke, Klotz, and Soldan
read nen dubitem, without the interrogation-Quum videam, dec
Video enim vos Africa prohibitos in Graeeiam ad Pompeium ivisse.

40. Et prohibiti. Z. 717.-Sumnacumtnjmie. 2472, He
was not eren allowed to land his sich son.

42. nempe. Z. ‘dib—anns anctoritatem secuti. Latenter hoc
significat: Auctoritas amplissimi viri, non causa vos ad belli societatem
adduxit.

43. Quod si . . . . veniebatis . . . . venissetis. Observe the in·
dicetive in the conditional clause, and the subjunctive in the conse·
quent clause. The indicative represents the action ae real or as so
conceived, here with reference to veniebatis above, line 343 the sub·

 

