amsa onnnron scarnen carrariis. 151

promulgated the AgrarIan laws, he deprived his colleague Octavius ofl³⁵g9e

his office, and constituted himself, his father-in-law Appias, and hie
brother Caius a triumvirate for the division of lands and the plantation
of colonien. Upon this, P. Scipio Nasica, his cousin-german, from the
npper part of the Capitol, summoned all who had at beart the wolfare
of their country to follow him, and rushed upon the crowd of Grac-
chns' adherente. Gracchus, as he fied, was struck delun hy the frag-
mentes a bench, and expired at the very gates of the temple of Fides,
n. n. c, fior. Here and below, 2, b -l, Cicero speaks mildly of the of·
fence of the Gracchi, to eontrast the conduct for which they suffered
with the fearfnl crima that Catilina meditated. Another passage, in
which he speaks of the Gracchi with great moderatiori (but possibly,
says Klotz, to please thepeople), is in tho second book De Lege Agrar.
5, 10: “Venit enim mihi initiantem daos clarissimos, ingeniosissi-
vnos, cruentissimos plebi Romana viros, Τι’, et C. Gracchos, plebem
in agris puhlicis constituisse, qut agei o privatis antea possidebantur.
Non sava aeteva ego is Goasal, qai, at plerique, nesus esse arbitrer
Gracchos laudam qaorum consiliis, sapientia, legibus multas esse
video rei publica partes constitutas.'’ Quintilian points ont the aa·
tithetieal characteres this passage: “Hie et Catilina Graccho, et
statas rei publica orbi terraram, et inediocris labefactatio cadi et
incendiis et vastationi, et privatas consulibus cornparatar.” viii. 4,
14.-—Pantiseictnaaimas. Cicero appears to have added these words
simply to remind his hearers that Scipio was a distinguished and pru·
dent man, who had had that high office, It agrees also very well
with the subseqneut priuatus, since the priesthood was not strictly a
magistracy, and accordingly the pontifex, unless he at the same time
held some magistr-icy besides, ivas only a privato man. Consult
Schmitz, Hist. Rotae, pp. 330-333.

24, SpurInm uranum, a Roman knight, ivho, when the Roman
people were suffering from famine, Α. n. c. 314, distributed corn to
them at his own expense. Having thus gained over the commonS,
he aintecl at regal power, and evas slain by Servilius Ahala, at the
command of Q. Cincinnatus the dictator, Λ. υ, ο, 315, Cf, Liv. 4, 13.
See Schmitz, Hist. Rouze, p.126.-Noois retas stridentem, aiming
to overtnrn the goverument, νεωτερίζοντα,

25. Fuit, fuit. Geminatio. Arnold, Prose Composition, p. 263.
It gives emphasis. So below, nas, noe.

2⁹(- coercerent. This is the cacabatum propriam to express
the executive duty of a magistrate. Cf. de Legg. 3, 3, 6 3 de Off.
3, 5, 23.

l. Non deest rei publicae consilinm. Reipublicae is usuallylo
construed as the dative with deest. Benecke, however, regards it as
the genitive limiting consilinm, and referring the whole sentence to
the historical events cited, he gives the following as the sense: “ There

 

