orrarrou roa a. annius 11110, 393

imporlfflwe' med Wfflmm delay, Wllhffllt Wstlllssg ll& turn on thelffi

doclret
, G. Divlsa sententia est. When a motion comprehended two or
more partIculars, any senator could have them put separately, simply
hy sayiup, divide. Here the points were: 1. ut veteribus legibue...
praetactum 2. at estro ordinem praeteritur. 'llus division allowed
the rejection of one and adoption of the other nicasius-Postumum
¹ nescio qao. Cicero douhtless knew, hut wishes to show his judgment
f of the insignificance os tho individual. Cf ch. 24, 65, arliae the narne
is even given, and 0801131118, The name in this instance is given
by Asconius and Sahal. Bel. as Q. Fufius Calenus.

8. Empta intercessione. 'l'hat ol the tribunes Munatius Plan-
cns and Sallust. When a triburie interposed his ecto, the deeree was
not completely nullilied, but retained a species of authority, intimated
by the name renatas aucteritas, which, however, is sometimes used
forsenatus coasultum. Reliqua stands in reference to the 1111011101(-
icus part, at aetra ordinem quereretur

9. at enim. The third prejudicium sc. “that Pompey hy his
act had condemned Milo.'’ This Cicero refutes, by showing that Pom-
pey merely enacted an inquiry-that an iuqiriry, where the laet was
uchnowledged, implies an inquiry inte the merits os the cause—that it
will he seen hy Pompey’s own showing (Jam illud ipse dicet, &cl
that his act is attributable to no predilection for Clodius, but 10 the
emergency of the case—that to act otherwise would he to overthrow
the very nature of a law, in the eye of which all men, whether high
or low, are equal, as appears from the instances of Drusus and Afri·
canus‚ whose untimely and lamented fate called forth no new enact-
ment—that to permit concomitaut circumstances to have any weight
in doterminirg the amount of guilt, would he to maire the atrocity of
Clodius's death to he heightened, and that of his victim, Papirius,
lowered, by their occurring on the Appian (ii e. Clodiau) uiay, (dat eo
triers atrocior, &ch lll-—that in adduciug an instance of Clodins's
guilt, it vves unnecessary to go back to Papiriae, (qaid ego illo coue-
menzoro, &ep the attempt to assassinate Pompey (as guill consists in
the intention) being as bad as murder itself3 not to mention the re-
peated attempls on Cicero’s own life, t Quoties ego ipse, 110120.)
Are uie prepared to say, then, (aslis Cicera) that, while the great and
good have had their lives talzeu away, cr attempted, and no new law
was called into existence hythe public sorrow, Clodius’s death has
excited such general rcgret, that Pompey framed his bill 10 assuage itl
ΝΟ, (Noa salt ea cetura, ore, adh) it was merely the fact of a recon-
ciliatiou having taken place between Pompey and Clodius some time
before, aud 111 which Poinpey wished to show himself perfectly sincere,
that has called 101111 the law in qrrestion, 1111111111 ne videretur, &c.,
1 21 ς) which after all Pompey would not have proposed, were he not

 

