odd

luo SHAKSPEARIAN okAokR3

A cotnnoklort OF THE MOST ninom> PLAYS OF

Coreiully Reviseti with Introductory and Enplnnotory Notes, and a Menon
of the Author. Prepared expressly for the use of Classes,
ond the F omiiy Reuding Cirele.

ΒΥ ool-ik W. S. HOWS,
Professor eff Elorotion iot Columbini Oollege.

-The iliu, whom Nuture’s sels hatlt made
To mooli herself, ond Tnurn tn imitate-spenser.

One Volume, temo, 3125.

At a period when tlte sanie oi snokspeare is Ἦ striding the world like a colossus,” end edi
tione oshis works are multiplied tuitii o prolusion thot testifies tlte desire atiel-eneti in nll classes
ol society to read nod study his imnerislntlile compositione—inore needs, perhnpe, out little
spology sor tire followinfv selection us his noris, prepared expressly to render theo] unexcep
ttonoltle sor tlte use ol Scirone, ond neeepntble ior Fatnily reading. Austri froin the saco that
Shokspeore is tito ‘² well-spring ¹¹ {rom which niny be traoed the origin ol tite purest poetry in
our longuage,—o long course ot professione! experienoe lias satisfiet] me that a necessity existo
ior the addnion os o work like the present, to our stook ol Educational Literoture. llis writinge
ere peculiosi?K aiinpied ior the purposes os Elocutionory exorciso, when tho system os instruction
pursued by t e Tescher is based upon the true principle ol the ort, viz.-o earesul analysis os
the structure and meaning oi langunge, rather than oservile otlhorence to the arbitrary and me·
ultanicol rules os Elocution.

To impress upon tho niinrl ol tlte pupil thot words are the exposition ol thought ond thot in
reading, or speaking, every shade ol thought and feeling lios ite appropriate shade ol modulated
tone, ought to be the especial otim ol every Teaeher3 ond an audior like snakspeare, whose
every line emhodies a volume ol menningo should surely sorni one os onr Elocutionary Text
Books. ' · “ Still, in preparingaseleutionos hieworks ior the express purpose content-
plated in mg desien, l nave not hesiltated to oxereise a seuere revision oi hie language, beyond
that adepte in nny similarnndertnking-2‘ Bowdler‘s Fomdysliakspeare ¹¹ noteven exeepted ;-
und simply, because l praetioolly know the ininossihility oi introducing Shokspeare zoio Cluen
Boon, orosa satisfactory Ileoding Book lor Families without this precautionory revision.-
Extraotsrom tlte Prefaoe.

W-

ffldffitkmddommomo

(NEARLY nonnis)

ntroin oo unu ouoonieut tun nunni

OF THE

MIDDLE Aous,

translated from the Frenoh of ol, Des Miconos, Rector of the College ol Rauen,
with Additions ond Coneetions,

ΒΥ G. W. (ΞΕΕΞΝΕ,
Professor eff Modern Louguoges io Brown Universily.

Aooompanied with Numerons Engrovings and llaps. One Volume, 12mo

TO BE FOLLOWED ΒΥ

Α Marmei os Modern History, dolon lo tlte Florali Renoltttion.
A Maneat of Aooient History.
A Histoe os Rome.

ζ’ Great paine nill he lokenlto adopt these books lo tho practice] purposesof the cisse
auom, mid sor the guidonee ot privato studente.

 

