oramen ron ana iaruman Lkw. 241

lost no less thau 300,0[l[) os her sone. Schmitz, Reme, p. 352, soll. ΟιιΡΞὶθ

the omission os the proposition ’τἠ, see Ζ. dib-Acerronio lectibus.
Compare Z. ene-Ac patrio esci-ciram. Cn. Pompeius Strabo. It
ivae in his leth year that Pompey entered upon his military career.

2⁵. nuti-ema pueritia. Z. 685, So just below, laenate ndo-
leccentin

26. Imperator, iu the 2311 year oi his age, when he collected an
army of three legions, and went to the aid os Sulla, by whom he wan
snlutcd imperator as a mark os distinction.

27. noste is contrasted with inianter. Hostis is “the enemy,”
in the field and war;iaimiees, “an enemy,” in heart. Der. Ob· ,
serve also the choice ol verbs, concertare aud confligere. With the
former Manutius supplies vertis, and compares od Art. 3, 12⁸. nun-
quam eccidit, ct carn eo cerdo arro concertarem.

29. confecit = subegit, in potestatem Romanorum redegit. Cf.
Liv, 40, 28: consecto provincio decedere.

32. Nou stipendiis, contrasted with triumphis, aud = inactive
campaigns, the time merely of service as measured by the soldiers' pay.

34. Civile. Between Sulla and the Marian lection, against Car-
be, Cinna, oo, billi—Africanam, 673. Against Cn. Domitius and
Hlarbas, king oi Numidia, whom he eonquered, and then restored
Hiempsal to his kingdom. Schmitz, Rotae, peon-Transalpinam,
677. The history es this war is obscure, and only known srorn §30
and the letter of Pompey to the senate in Sallust's Hist, trag. ΠΙ,
where Pompey says oi himself : dietus quodraginta exercitum para-
vi, hostesque io cervicibus jem Italiae agentes cl Alpibus in Hispe-
niam summoci; per eos iterationesque Hannibal, nolis apporta·
nice patefeci ,· recepi Galliam, Pyrenaeum, &c Cf. Plio. H. Ν. 3, 4.
Sertorius appears to haue formed an alliance with the Gauls that dwelt
between the Pyrenees and the Alps, for the purpose of cutting off or
obstructing the march of the Roman armies through Gallia, and of
securing easy access sor himself to kalp—Hispaniense. Sertorianum,
bib-682.

35. olintum, &c Madvig reads relictura ec civilius etque ec
bell.,· Steinmetz, Benecke, and Klotz, m, e. cisterciensesque es teli
Orelli explains his text as = qnod varie gerebatur, hic finiebatur, illic
rursus incipiebatur ab incitatis et bellicosissimis nationibus Hispanias.
Siipfle remarks that promineuce is to he given to the circumstance,
that the last-named Spauish suar, as also iu part the previously men-
tioned wars, was carried on by states that were connected wilh Reme
(as the citizens of Roman colonies iu Spain), and at the same time by
foreign naticns that were not Roman. It was thus a bellum rutatum.
-Sercile Against Spartacus, 683, seelssll. Schmin, Rome, p.
maon

36· navale. Agaiust the pirates, 687, see offis-Veris . . . . lo·

21

 

