onxrrox ron o. arsamus. 291

3. concessos fasces laureatos. Klotz: cone. taurearassnen.¹⁷³³7⁵

After en important victory the general was commonly honored by his
soldiers with tho title of Imperator, and tlro lictors wrcathed their sas-
ccswdhlaurol. Ad Fam.2, 103 ad Att. 5, 20. Sotomthe letterin
which the general announced his victory to the senate was twined
with the same. Ia Pison. 17, 393Liv. 5, 28, 13 ;45, l, 6. Ac-
cording to Appian, at least ludeo os the enemy must have fallen in
the battle gaIned to entitle to this honor. lt was in tho year 703,
while Cicero was proconsul of Cilicia, that he gained this victory aad
received this honor. Ad Att. 5, 203 ad Fame, nu 15, 4. In the
following year he left the province, and tarried some time at Athens.
Having reached Brundisium near the ond of November, in the begin-
ning of January, 705, he moved on to Rome, without however enter-
ing it, since the outbreak of tho civil war swept him with it, and defer·
rod his hope of a triumph. He did not, however, abendon the hope of
being allowed a triumph, and consequently did not enter Rome again
till October, 707, and till his entry, when the lews would require him
to lay down the imperfflm, he appears tc have retained the insignia of
command. See ad Fara. 14, 203 ad Art. 11, 24.

5. Reddere is the reading of the best MSS. instead ofthe common
dara, which however Madvig retains As what was lostand again
restored, is spoken of, it seems also best adopted to the context. That
dedisset should follow is not surprising, since it was not necessary to
express a second time the more exact idea of reddere.

6. Vide, quaeso, dcc. This passage is variously given in the
MSS. Benecke and Madvig read as in tho text, except de Ligarii
non audeam confiteri. After non dubitem many diss. and Edd.
give dicere. Some retain it in brackets. Klotz and Soldan read
aad defend non dubitem dicere, de Ligarii audeam confiteri. With
regard to omitting the non before aztdearn, which the common read·
ing gives, Benecke thinks there might be sorno doubt, since the irony
which suits the passage, and so well corresponds to the ironieal corn-
menoement of tlre speech, would be by the omission lost. Siipfle on
the other hand regards the expression as gaining in force and irony,
by the omission of non. The sense oi the text is thus given by Orelli:
Quam tarn libero ac sine nllo metu de meo facto coram Caesare loquar,
facile intelliges me de Ligarii facte, re minoris momenti, aeque libere
dicere ansarum esse.

7. Duortem. P. 0. 4843 Z. mid—De Ligarii. Wonld the
insertion os eo in accordance with the English idiom be allowabie in
Latini Ζ. idi—Auderem. Vide....ut....audeam. P. 0. 109 ;
Z. 552.

8. Quam de sc, &c The reflexive shows that this sentenceis
referred to the mind of Tubero. Ernesti, not inaptly‚ resolves it by
quamde ee eodem me dicentem audiret.

 

