426 uerus.

{3⁸3 eipal object in the oration. If this question was put in the tortum of

the slaves os Clodius, they were suhjected te turture against their mas·
ier, and: de seroie tuille lege questio ost in doiriinma nisi de incesta.

18. Nunc, with emphasis: nune domurn, 100 days alter the
death ol Clodius See otio-Iu atrio Libertatis. There was a tern-
ple os Libertas on the Avwrtiue, built by the father os the Gracchi.
There litus also an uli-ium Libertatis by the sorum, nd Are 4, 16, 14.
When Clodius had driven Cicero into exile, he destroyed his house on
thePalatiue, und on its site had erected a chapel to Libertas. The
spacious perches ot' ternples were used sor various purposes3 and per·
haps business, particularly that rclatiug to slaves and lreedmen, was
transacted in the Atrinnr Libertatis. Klotz supposes the atrium Li-
bertotis is mentioned as the place ol the erqarninatIon, in order to sug-
gest the hope ol lreedonr as en inducement to the slaves to give the
desired auswers.

19. Quibusnam de servis. When Appius could not procuro
the slaves os hlilo lor exarniuation, he had receurse to those of Ρ. Clo-
dius. Cicero shows the sairness that rney he expected srorn slaves
drilled by the accuser-Rogas? Α familiar formula ol every-day
conversation and dialogus, frequently used when one is snrprised, or
afl'ects surprise, that the other could aslr.

20. Quis . . . ¹Appius. This is an instance of the rhetorical fig-
ure called συμπλοκή (καινότης) cotirpleeie Quinctil. 9, 3, 31, cites it as
an enanrple. Za 821. Appias was the naphew of Publius Clodius.

21. ab *appio = er Appii domo. How little credit vvould be due
to their declaratione, appears srorn Flere. 10.

22. Quaestio est, like ectio eet = the right, dac, enisis—In de·
minure. Klotz: in duritiaos.

2³. Proxime deos accessit Clodius. Because he is patena
par with thern in the rnode ol exantination teuchiug his death. The
violation el their mysteries demands the inquisition, The death of
Clodius has called ior the sarne. This is a nearer approach te divin-
ity than was even his famous adventure at Cessas house. In this
signification, accedere nd, commonly with prope, propius, proxime, is
the usual construction in Cicerei He also uses the dative. Compare
Arnold's Nepos, Theoi. 4, l, and 7, 2, See also Z. 386 and 387.
What double meaning iu this sentence 'l Ltg. 12, 37: tornines etaim
addere trullo re propias accedant quem salutem horninibus decido.
Rata. perd. 2, 5 : Deinde eos‚Qairitee‚ querunt potestas procliue oei
deorum imenerteliam aetiten aceedit.

25. Sed taurea, dac. Were the slaves of lllilo examined against
Milo, the truth might easily be elicited 3 lor it was net the difficulty of
arriving at the truth, bat the indignity os the proceeding that dietated
the rejection of such testiinony; bnt where the slaves ol' the accuser
are questioned against the arraigned‚ of Appius against Milo, is truth

 

