148, noras.

1²¹³getha energy imparted hy tho personifieation of furor eud eudocia.

Furere is osten used of instigatore ol sedition. Quid est eliud furere,
nisi uim cognoscere tornines, non cognoscere leges, noo senatum, nen
ciuitatem? Cio. in Pison. 20, en-Eluuir. Properly a gladiatorial
term os avoidiug a tlrrust by the rapid motion of tho body J lreuce fig·
uratively to deceive , baille, aud ltere with the uotiou ei derisiou aud
contempt, derived srorrr tlre hearing of the vietor, to moolr, iusult over.
—Nos is bracketed by Orelli as doubtful, defended by Klotz, omitted
hy Madvig. See pro lllilone, 12, 32.

3. Quem ad tinem. 'I'his phrase should uot he used to signify
purpose or aim, but as equivalent to quousque or quamdiu. So Vere.
5, 29, 75:pireteru einum tenuisti. Quennedfinent? Dum enin
imper-io suisti. Of tlre tlrree interrogativas here used, quousque puts
the more general question, with reference to time aud degree5 quem-
diu aud quern adfluere, tlre more special, the former in regard to time
only, tlre latter iu regard to degree only. Selruhz.-Jueiobit = inso-
lenter se efferet. The uotiou is derived lrom tho proud gesture of oue
who tosses his head eontemptumsly, rvullrs with aeorroeited sniug,
&c Muretus calls attention to tho frequeuoy of the letter n- iu tlris
passage, as giving fuller tone aud stateliuess to the discourse, aud con-
trasts it with cupio P. 0. rite esse elementem, ch. 2, e-Nr'tthe.
For tlre figure repetitio here u'sed, see Aruold, P. G. afi33 Ζ. 821 ;
aud sor nihil instead os non, see Z. 677.

4. Palatii. The Palatino hill, which overhuug the Forum ou the
south. At au earlier date is was the rosideuoe of the kiugs, and, he·
sore tlrc time ol Augrrstus, os distinguished Romans. Cicero, Antony,
Scaurus, aud Catilina lrimsell had houses ou it. Angustus built upon
it a splendid mansion, aud sireoeeding emperors mado it their resl-
deuee, so that patritium came to siguisy arry royol residente, aud
heuee the English rvord pulnee. Iu daugerens times a guard was set
upon it, us upon its possession depended the possession of the city.
Comp. Sall. Cat. 49: Nonnulli equites Rerrreiii-prcesidii reuse euru
telis erunt circunsedent Concordia-Vigiliis. See Sall. Get. 30:
itemque deerevere, uri-Romu pei· tutem urbere vigilie lederentur,
iisque minores eringius-etus preessent. Under tlre republic, orr special
occasions, the triumviri capitales, ediles or tribuni plebis, who are
meant hy “minores magistratus’ iu the passage of Sallust, were
charged reith providiug aniatch sor the city. clunes, 14. The
triumviri nocturni appointed a ivatelr to guard against fires. Au-
gustus oorreeutrated these offices in ono head ot police, the prefectus
arbi aud a special prefectus vigilum.

5. Timor populi. Compare Sallust's description of this alarm,
Cet. 31: repente erneis tristitie inuasit . . . . suo quisque metu peri·
eale metiri, &c.; aud pre lllureno, eh. {lli—Bonorum emnium.
Boni, as often, us'ed oi the patriotio, conservative, order aud quiet

 

