aaron.

dottotttttt’s
SYSTEM OF LEARNING LANGUAGES

APPLIED '1'0 THE

STUDY OF FRENCH.

With a Treatise on Frenclt Verssificotion ottdto Dtettonary of idioms, Peculiar
xpresstons, e c,

ΒΥ J. Roaatan,

Professor ostbe Frerteh Longaoge oud litteratore t'o tlte Nero-ler Prae Aeoaemy.
oneraturos, l‘2mo. 81,

With the exception os our own tongue, Frenclt is undoubtedly the most important languago
of the modern world. Commerce, literature, seleuce, and the fine aus, all detttand its aid. lt
therel'ore isjustly elassed witlttlte numerous btaneltes os knowledge essentiolto agood education.

The tvork ttow before us is an atnplidcatiott olthe system putstted by tlte late Gardittal hiez-
rotano, applied to tlte French language. Professor Roetuer, who is t'avorably known in connec-
tion with the Ftee Academy oi this ctty, was personolly oe ualuted witlt tltis extraordinar lin·
guist, and received from hitn tlte details os his successful mode os study. The following pretdtory
passage describes tlte system :-

‘⁴ This eminent man, so remarkable and reuowned sor the ease aud certainty with whieh he
acquiretiabost os languages, proeceded mainly in their study lJy the observation os their onobep,
which lte regarded as tlte key to tlte various t'ortus οι speech eristing among divers nations. 'He
attached little itnportanee to grammaticali rulcs exceplthose belongingto general grammar, and
those connected with the vernaculam but insisted largely on close attetttton to the verbs, aud
considered it ot' ttttportance to possess a copious and accurate dictionary. His method was to
make ltintselt'well aequaiutedwith tlte pronunciadon, and to tbis eud he would begin by repeat-
ing as tatthttttty as possible in sonnd, a number οι· phrases, with the sense otwtttctt, in nis own
tanguage, he was thoroughly satniliar. Readittg alottd, aud copying aster caresul noalysis οι
the words and phrases1 constituted tlte residue of his method. He atmed in ltis reading and
copying to select passages which eonveyed nsetut and specific instruction sordre sake os tho
greater saeility they affort] in making an impressiou on tlte tnind and memory, and also sor tlte
sake os association between the words and tlte tdeas. He laboret] hard to enter sully into tlte
spirit and sense os the totonis, and gave tlte finishing stroke ιο liis process by committing to
utemory passages os verse iu which tlte diction was especially elegant aud easy. By these

ted a practical knowledge os tlte tanguage, which lte tlten sougltt to perseo, by
reterrtug grammar. lt will readily be peteeived wltat efficacy there must be iu a system
which. ai τ first to impart a complete knowledge os what may be called tlte mechanieal por·
tion osa t'oreigu tangue, goes on to bestow upon it an intelligent stutly ol its elements and prin-
ciples tlte effects os which must be to make a deeper and inore lasting impression ol what bas

already been aequired.⁷¹

We approve highly os the ntethod so ably advocated by Professor lloemer: it is simple, en·
eoutaglng in its nature! aud tnore ltkely to conduct the student to a sound knowledge os tlte
structore osthe language than any other witlt wltielt we are acquainted. The uetory re·
marks on the history and analogies of tite Fretteh tanguage are practical and suggestive. An
admirable treatise on French versification (generally neglected in tuition), uod a eopiotts diction-
ary os idioms deo, are very important features ιιι tlte work. The progressive readtngexerciscs,
in rose and verset have been selected with great toste, and justly claim sor tlte volume the
additional merit os being highly tntcresttog even to those who have ntastered the tanguage, and
now cultivate its literature We cannot close out notice os this excellent work more appropri-
ately.than byreeomutendtngit aslbetng well wonlty ot the atteutton ot all those who areintetested

in ed'ucational progress and the sttnpltfiootton ot valuable lmowledge—Jozrraol φ’ Οοοηηιονοο.
W

tht Ponttttt landolt etanta.

OHOIX llll Pontius
roott aas moues ransonnns.

Par Mme. A. COUTAN.
One volume, lQmo. dl.

Onotx nes Poastrs roua tas lavans Ponsortwes is the title os aselection os poems in
the Freneh language.¹ desit.r l os the voung. bv Madame A. Contra, just pub·
lishedbyr · a¹ collectiouolsomeofthe
streete-stand ‚ ’ . vote ltartlly atvero„ tttt we
lookedoverthisbook a s ., . T . ,. .„ adcontribntedtoaelassol
productions‚ so peculiarly suited to readers osan oarly age-Eretriug Posi.

20

 

