onnnon son e. ennius nno. 405

Ρη
had imagined there vivas no alternative between the degger ol Clodius ΗΞ

and the sentence ol the jndges, ho vrould have preferred the lornier,
as less dishonorable to yon. Cl. Rosa. 3, S.—Dnre jugulent. Rose.
Ain. ll, 30, eervices Roscio dore.
22. Illud jam, dee. Klotz: nore illud jorleio judicium verrit,
occisusne sit, &e ’ ”

25. Foetes . . . . sactum . . . . facte. Recto Garatoni monet rea
petitiones ejusmodi aliquando ita esso necessarius, ut, ens effugere si velis,
nihil proficias nisi ut inepto lnhore te nnreeres, et, perspicuitate sublato,
vitiosa fiat oratio. They soem a kind of polyptotonQ uinetll. 9, 3,37.

28. Notavit· Notere involves the notion ol censure, derived from
the censor's erote.

Cn xli-32. Impune = impumtum. Z. 365 in lin—Turonos.
Klotz: si ille linie, nt scelere solvemur. Some rend tenu ut nos.

33. (Quonam igitur paeto. His first proof, whieh oeenpies this
und tho following section, is, that Clodius would have gnined by the
death of ntrlo,÷111d110t Milo hy the death os Clodius.

ar.111uucassian11m. censentiret, Sl. L. Cassiuswns
so remarkable sor his strietness as a jndgo, that Vn. illex. 3, Τ, says:
Ejus tridrnrul scopulus reorum dicebatur. When appointed, says
Asconius, to jndge tho vestal virgins, oi whom L. Metellus had con-

* demned only oue, AErnilia, and acquitted hlnreie end Licinis, he con-
demned them also, along vvith several others-Cui bono suerit. Cui
isdative of the person, end eona of the thing.

39. Hoe- Klotz: hree assequebatur,

40. Non eo consulensis, dee. Cf. 13, 34, and 33, 89.

41. Iis consulibus. Plautius Hypseus and Q. Metellus Scipio.
essese
’ 43. Eludere is used absolutely, and = bacchari quodam modo
et qussi per ludum ee jocum, nemine resistente, audacissime omnin
permiscere, subvertere. See note on p. 9, line ἱ). Klotz:pesse se
eludere.

44. cnjus, Clodii-Illi, eonsules—Ipse. Klotz and others ille.-
Nee cuperent, &e illest editions, from a eonjeeture of Manutius,
give nee, si possent, reprimere cuperent, purim, &e Klotz and
Stipfie retain tho reading of the MSS. nec, si cuperent, reprimere
possent, queror, &e., and make cupere denote tho inclination of the
feeltngs, the moral desire; velle, the energetle, efficient will. Cice-
ro’s meaning then is, that, as Clodius reasoned, the consuls wonld

neither he able (morally), if they ionnd it even desirable, to eheek
his enterprises, since they supposed themselves bound in gratitude to
him ior so great a levor, nor, if they really wished it, urere they in
a condition (physieatly) to erush them. hlndvig rejects this view, and
assuming his conjecture to he the correct ren, neeounts for the rend-
ing of the MSS„ by supposing that a eureless copyist, not attending

 

