230 = novus.

X? 2¹· [Ea] aliud eos utar. Klotz and Madvig omit oo altogether.

22. In dicendo. The common text omits io; and this reading
Matthiae explains as = efficere, quod operte pretium sit. Benecke,
from Coo. Eis„ receives in and explains: si quid inipso orte oratorio
efficere posenni, si guomj'ocullutom dicendi tabeo, dec,

23. Potissimum. See Arnold's Nepos, Mitt. l, [2], e-Et . . . .
rei = facultati dicendi.

24. censuerunt. Klotz and Madvig read duxerunt.

25. lune....lzetanuum.,..esse. Z. 385.

27. Possit· Ζ. 556. The common text gives potest.

48 l. Virtute: high quatines, ruerit, tarenis—Hujus autem oro-
tionis, &c The position of a genitive, which is governed by two or
more substantives, is either before or aster the governing substantivcs,
not between them. The resemblance of this passage to the following
from Lysias against Eratosthenes, b 1, is striking: οὐκ ἄρξασθαί μοι
δοκεῖ daopo'v εἶναι, di ἄνδρες δικασταὶ, τῆς κατηγορίας, ἀλλὰ παύσασθαι
λέγοντι.

3. copia = materiale for eloquens-Medos, moderatior] in the
use of them.

Cu. IL-r. Vectigalilrus. Temnites-sociis, particularly Ario-
barzanes, of whom below, oh. 5, rec, sorios populi Rom. otqoe omi-
ons.

8. Alter, Mithridates, relictae, non prorsus debellatus a L. Lucullo.
See ῥ ea-ntnr, Tigranes ab eodem Lucullo lacessitus dumtaxat,
nonvIetus. §23

9. Occasionem . . . . ad occupandam Asiam· We might ex-
pect the genitive of the gerundive after occasio. For one substantive
is seldom joined to another by a proposition in Latin, except after a
verbal substantive, retaining the construction of the verb from which
it is derived (aditus od portum); and when the substantive with its
preposition expresses the insteriol (monile eo aurel—Asiam. Procon-
sular Asia, a portion of Asia Minor, including Mysia, Troas, AEolis,
Ionia, Lydia, Caria, and the two Phrygias. These were thefincst
and richest districts of Asia Minor, and from them the Romans de-

rived large revenues.

10. Arbitrantur. So also Klotz and Madvig, Itis defended by
Wunder, Vorr. Lectt. God. Ets- p. LXIX. against the common read-
ing arbitretur, and by Benecke, since it refers to neither singly, bnt
to Mithridates and Tigranes conjointly as albos—Equitibus Romanis.
The equites, as possessing large wealtb, were usually the fanners of
the public revenues. The revenuos were let out, or, as the Romans
expressed it, were sold by the censere in Rome iteelf to the highest
brudei, The pnhliconz', which word ls used as synonymous with opni-
tes, had to give seenrity to the state for the sum at which they bought
one or more branchos of the revenue in a provinco; bnt as sor this

 

