ORATION son THE ninurttnn titw.

¹2· Qum quum, dec. Tho general conclusion before proceeding {3⁵3

to the confutation.

16. DubitabitIs . . . . quin. . . conferatis. Is this the common
constructiones dubito or nori dubito when the meaning is “ toscruple¹¹
or‘¹l1esitate'’i Z. 541. Quin is, however, necessary when dubitare
stands in the passive or gernnd: Domitius cibi du b i t a u d u m ri c n
putavit, qui u prelio decertaret, Cres. B. 0. 3, 37. So also, Quum-
que ricc aiibi, accsrutri tuce dubium essct, quin Brundisium conten-
daremus. Cic. riu. 8, ll, I). 3.

Cn. xvii—19. Quod si = quare ci, is more than the simple ei.
Quod serves to indicato a connection with the preceding proposition.
See Z. 342 aud sut. How may we express this quud? Z. 807. In
rendering it may also be sometimes unexpressed, and should not ul·
ways be translated by “because if.”

20. Erat deligendus. Si with the imperfect or pluperfect sub-
junctive is generally followed bytho indicative of the historica] tenses,
mest frequently by the imperfect indicative, in expressions which de-
note “must,” “should” “ can,’' ‘⁶ may,'¹ &c.; also the participle of
the future active, almost without exception, and the gerund and ge-
rundive, regularly are connected ivith erat, fuit, fuerat. See Z. 519,
e. The subjunctive denotes the simple thought or conception, the in-
dicative the actual undoubted fact, in itself true and certain.

22. sejungatur, ut . . . . adsit. See Z. 522.

23. Ab iis, dac. Pompey had just brought the piratic war to a
close, and was now in Cilicia, and could receive troops from Lucullus
or Glabrio, the proconsul of Bithynia,

25. Cetera. Supply balla from the next clause, and connect
sumtus with salute. On the cuin, see Z. 472λ

26. Bellum regium, adversus Mithridatem ac Tigranem—Curri-
mittamus. So also Klotz and Madvig. See Z, 53tt.

28. nt enim. These particles are used in anticipating an objec-
tion for the purpose of removing it.

29. Vestris beneficiis amplissimis affectus = summis bono-
ribus erratus ‚¹ for Catulus had been consul with Lepidus twelve years
before, and offices among the Romans were regarded as benefits,
which the state conferred, and therefore named beneficio, to which
atriplissituu is hera added to denote tlre high dignity of the consulship
—Q. Catulus. Throughout life he was distinguished as one of the
prominent leaders of the aristocracy, and being consul along with M.
AEmilins Lepidus, n. u. c. 676, the year in which Sulla died, he stead·
ily resisted the efforts of his colleagno to bring about a counter·revolu-
tion by abrogating the acts of the dictator. During the progress ot*
the Catilinariun plot, lia strenuonsly supported Cicero, and either lie
or Cato was the first to hail him as ‘⁶ pareus putris? Catulus died
during the consulship ot Metellus Celer, a. u. c. 6945 “ happy‚'’ says

 

