onarrou ron run rom nncnms. 355

41. nesignasset = ‘¹ tad destroyed.” Resigrrare (properly 1οἙἕᾷ
auscul) is here appropriate, because all such public documento were
scaled by the praetor with his own ring. His condemnatam, by injur-
ing his character sor pretty, naturally lessened the authority of his
papers.

42. Modestissimus = “ legam diligentissimusobservator.” Em.

44. Venerit. . . . dixerit. Tho Perscct denotes asingtc action:
verriret . . . . diceret would rather denote a continued or repeated oue.
See Z. 512, Note. Krebs, Gutta, 261. Lentulus was praetor, a. u. c.
tta-Sa commotum esse, i. e. to suspect a fraud.

3. Aliis quoque in civItatihus . . . . adscriptus. His havingfflss
received the sreedcm of those clties, is mentioned to increase tho prob·
ability 01 his having received it at Heraclia3 not as giving him any
right to the Roman citizenship. For dubitetis, Klotz gives dubitetis.

4. Mediocrihus mult1s et aut· Klotz omits et. V. rnediocritas
scil. refertur ad ingenium ς hoc membrum ad artem atquo disciplinam,
unde melius copula priori jungitur. Orelli.

ὅ. Gratuita, i. e. “nullo corum merito 3¹⁷ or “ita ut nullus inde
tructus neque adse nequead rem publicam redundaret.” htattlnae
compares de Not. Deor. 1y 14, 122: Prota et arca et pecudum greges
diliguntur isto inodo, qaodfructus ec iio capiantur, tostinum caritas
et otulcitiu grutuita est. Nauck rejects gratuito. S. rien gravate.

o. In Gracia, i. e. in Magna Grueio; the Greek colonies in the
south of Italy. In Gracia is to be joined with impertiebant: not in
Gracciu homines—Rheginos credo ..... noluisse. Ironically. So
Rosc. Aruer. 21, 59. But in this sense it is rarely followed by the ac-
cusative with the infinitive. See Z. tlt.

7. scenicis artificibus. Aoting on the stage, music, and dan-
cing, were regarded by thc Romans us ignuble acts, which ought to
be practised by slaves, and not by trecmen.

9. Post civitatem datam sc. sociis et Latinis, Cf. Fam. 13,
30: crat adscriptas in id rnrrnicipiam urite civitatem sociis et Latinis
dutum. There were two laws on this subject: (1) thatol L. Julius
Caesar, then consul, n. u. c. 664, iu the first year of the Italic avar,
that the citizenship should bo given to the alies, who had either re-
mained in their allegiance or laid down their arms: (2) that os the
tribunes, ΜΔ Plautius Silvanus and C. Papirius Carbo, in the second
year of the same war, which extended its provisions to loreigners en·
rollerl in any of the confederate states provided they were resident at
Rome when the act was passed, and declared their wish to avail them-
selves ol its provisions within sixty days. This declaration was made
helore the praetor. Ast, hlanut

10. Post legem Papiam. An act de peregrinio ez rude ejici-
endis passed in tho consulship of Cotta and Torquatus, Δ. u. c. 689.
It enacted that all straugors who regarded themselves as Roman citi-

 

