ailnotho PRONOUNUING otthonum

OF Tira

nahoth ahu antitisti tahootoho

tn TWO PanTs.

Praei. FRENOH AND ENGLISH. Ι Pana 11. ENGLISH AND hannon.

'Phe Frnsr Pana comprehcnding words in common use-Torius connected with Science-
Ternrs belonging to the Fine aras-too) liistorical Nomas-tuot] Geographicul Names-lidii
ternis lately‘pphlishedy with the Phonoxeln'rtox oe avani* wana, according to the Freneh

Academy an homost eminent lexicographers and Granrrnarionsf, together with 750 Critical r
Renrarlrs, in which tlrc various nicthodsotpronouncingemployed hy ditlerent authors are inves-
tigated and compared with each other.

The Sroovn Paua containing a eopious vocabulary os English words and expressions, with
the pronunciation according to Wallrer.

THE WHOLE PRECEDED ΒΥ

1 Praetical and conprehensio lystra ol 11111111 Pronuntiotion.

Ba (litaniae sanarat, F. Α. S. E.l

Franco Teoeher iu Edinborglr ,- Oorresponding Member of the Franci Grammaticol society
Reprinted from a duplicate cast οοῐᾷζῖἰοδιέἑᾶᾖέξῌῐεε osthe last Edinhurgh edition.
One stout volume, 121110Ἰ os nearly oro pagos. Price 3150.

A FEW cameraris ΟΝ ITS nonalis.
Kinderuaot Acodemy.

Surenae’smeneh Dietionary is inmanyrespects superiorto thoseot “hleodow'land ‘⁴ hoyerfl
Tha Proper Names at the hottom of each page, and the rnetlrorl oi explaining the pronunciation,
(by the French sounds of the vowels, with which the pupil has become tamilrau) are in my opin-
ion distinguishing excellencies. sitas ntETcatF.

Prionoton, Ν, ,Z

We use habitually the admirable Diitmri pIsSurenne, LYMAN COLEMAN.

a ariano l* oguzr'ue.

“This work must have hoen one ot* very great labor, as it is evidently oldeep rescarch We
have given it a carosul exantinatiom and are pert'cctly sate in saying, we have never before scon
anythingottholrindatolltocomparevvitlrit. Ourspaee ’ otpermitustogivemorerhan
this general testimony to its value. Longas the title is, ond h as it promises, our examina·
tion os the work proves that ah the promises are suintino, e think that no student of the
Frcnch languere should, t'or a moment, hesitare to possess h s as itt Nor, indeed, will it he
found less usesul to the accomptished Freneh scholar, who nd in it a lund os iut'ormarion

, whichcannowherehemetwirhinanyonehoolr. Suohav assoralorrgtimeheengreatly
needed, and atr. Surenae has supplied tho deficieucy in a masterly style. We repeat, therefore,
our well digesterl opinion, that no one in search osa knowledge ot'the niceties os the merch lan-
guage should he without it.'¹

Nere-Yorl Ohserrer.

“Every studentes the Freneh language, und every person ot taste who is fond of reading
Frenehs and wishes to heeorne proficient in that tourne, should possess this comprehensiva hut
complete dictionary. lt enrhraces all t those in scienee and the
fine arte, historica! and geographical nani ol every wordaceording
to the Freneh Academy, together with st uretur to every leomer. ,
11 is pulrlisherl iu a sorm os extremo condensatio so t‘ull a compilation os words,
oefinirions, ote, as scarcely to leave any thing to lro <irascor

Bonan taio-ier

“This is, we believe, the first French pronou athas appeared in the English
field οῑ111εηεὶιεᾱιιεηιῑοη,1ηιι1111111111. 111 11 felicitate himself on rhe de·
cided success which has attended his etl'ors ts longhexpeeted desideratum
Mr. S. has rendered precise what was he uther-to been obscurer in
short7 put into the hands os both toacher-s ilology and pronuncia-
tion, as good, as correct, as autharit-alive 1· 1n the English tongue.
The method ado ted sor representing th or American eve
and ear, so that tiiultless pronunciation mayhc z
the French heodem, consequantly os the lugi
The English pronunciation is precisely aiter 111
most seru ulnus accuracy, thus giving
tionaryo Frenchpronunciation,vvitlrwo a. 0. ι EngIIshpranunci
ation. We exhortae entreat teochersa pare interested iu the etlucation of
youth, to looh at tlhis splendid work of industry andingenuity, and they will see aad recognize its
superiorityataganeo. 21

 

