. enarrari ron r. usuros MILO. 37 5

was necesary that he should be adopted into a plebeian family. Repeated
attcrnpts were made by the tribune, C. Herennius, to net this brought about.
But the triumvirs had not yet tahen Clodius'sside. Cicero, however, whose
relianee was placed on the fricndslrip and support of Pompey, in defending
C. Antonius, provohed the triumvirs, and especially Caesar, and within three
hours after the delivery of his speech, Clodius became the adopted son of P.
Fonteius (at the end of the year hut). T he lex curiata t'or his adoption was
proposed by Cesar, and Pompey presided ln the assemhly. The whole pro-

f· ceedina,¹ was irregular, but Clodius iiras soon actively cndeavoring to secure his

electiori to the tribuneship, and succeeded in his object with the assistance of

,L Cresar, and entered upon his otlice in December, s, u. o. 605.

Clodius did not immediately assai] his enemies. His first measures were a
series of laws, calculated to lay senate, hiriane, and people under obligations
to him. T he consuls of the year he also gained over to his interests, and hav-
ing thus prepared the way, he operrcd his attach upon Cicero by proposing a
law to the etlect, that whoever had tehen the lile of a citizen, uncondemned
¹ dwithont a trial, should be irrterdictcd from earth and irater. The pro

iugs which ensued ended in Cicero's withdrawing into erile.

immediately after the banishment of Cicero, Clodius set tire to his house on
thc Palatine, and destroyed his villas at Tusculum aud Formiae. The greater

’ tof the property carried off from them, was divided between the two con-
To alienate Cicero's property irretrievably, he dedicated it to the god-
dess hibertas; and a small portion of the site of the dwelling on the Palatina,
with part of the ground on which the portico of Catulus, which adjoined Ci-
cero’s grounds, had stood, was occupied by a chapel to the goddess„ He went
so far as to offend Pompey by aiding the escape ofTigranes, son of the king of ›-
Armenla‚ whom Pompeyhad brought a prisoner to Home. hi this instance
also his services were purchased. Pompey, however, ‹lid not feel himself
sirone enough toresent the insult Clodius soon assailed him more openly,
and made an attempt, through one of his slaves, upon the lile of Pompey, ruho
' hdrew to his own house, and hept there as long as his enemy was in
e.
he attempts made before the end of this year to procrrre the recall of Cicero
proved abortive. Nerrt year, a. u. ς. (197, T. Annius dnh uras tribune of the
plebs, when his memorable and fatal contest rvith Clodius began. llilo was
dceply in debr, and a wealthy province alone could extricato hini. But with·
out elosrreuce or political taient, the member of a comparatively obscure tarn-
ily could not hope to obtain the consulate, unless he identified his own interest
with that ef some one or other of the great leaders of the comnronwealth.
Milo, therefore, attached himself to CnPornpey, and Cicero’s recall from exile
was the immediate pretert ot* their allianee. ln procuring Cicero's restoration,
illilo, from hisdaring and unscrupulous character, was by far the most effi-
cient of the tribunes. He combated Clodius with his oum iveapons. He pur-
chased, aster a faint and fruitless trial ot' constitutional means, a baud of gla-
diators, and the streets ot' Rome were the scene ot' almost daily and always
deadly eontiicts between the rivo leaders of these paid assassins

When the senate came to a resolution to propose to the comitia a decree for
the restoration of Cicero, Clodius evas the only· one who opposed it ς and when,
on the fourth of August, it uras brought before the people, Clodius spolre
against ir, but could do nothing more. The decree by which Cicero was re-
called, provided also for the restitution oi his property. Some difficulty, how·
ever, remaincd with respect to the house on the Palatine, the site of which
had been consecrated by Clodius to the senice ot' religion. The inatter was
referred to the college of pontifices, who returned an answer subicient to sat-
isfy all religiousscruples; and the senate decreed the restoration of the site,

 

