270 noras.

ggpnssugc, which is only to ho oxcnsod by the consideration, that Cicero
might hnre t'olt it necessary to put hirnsoll ahovo all suspicion in Ciu-
sar's oyes. Sirnilcr passages exist in tho orations sor Ligurine, und lor
Deiotarus, especially ᾧ :lo 'l'ho oration sor Marcellus tyris tho first

delivered nster his pardum-Sed turucu, dcc. A general modo ol er-
pressiou, with roso-oneo to i} 4 extr. nullutn iu lis luridum, &o In
dl, tho orator expresses hirnsoli moro sully on this point.

22. Nam . . , . qrridarn. Hc speaks with cantion, and does not
say ulii or plerique in opposition to himself, but only quitiam, (panci,)
to show that thoy might havo been inistahou iu their jndgmcut. Com-
pare Nepos, Thrasyl. l, 4. ead illu, &c

2t. Proprie ... . imperatorum. Krobs, Guidc, 1673 Z. dll.

27· Fortuna sibi virulicat. So Nepos, Thrasyl. l. l plurimu
ocro fortunu- uindicat. Compare Cas. Β. G. 5, 3οε Multum pontu
iu omnihus rebus, tutu in re ruilitruz' peresi fortune.

28. Hujus glorie, from pardouing Marcellus. Leuc soon sol-
lou's as a synonyrn of glorio. The former is properly the praiso and
estee1n,which the rneritorious and noble man cnjoys, the latter, ro-
uonn, fruit oi esteern. Luus deuotes ruore tho individua] aud mo-
mentaryJ glorio enhances the idea, and deuotes tho general and
lasliug. Gloria . . , . est consenticus laos botrorum, incorrupto ooo
benc judicantium de excellente vir-rute. Ture. 3, 2.

30. (Quantumcunque est. This expression olion restricte and
limits 3 qnod certe rrrucirrurm is therefore added to prevent ambiguity.

32. Praefectus, sc. alarum, qui equestribus turmis praeest, iu oppo-
sition to centurio, a commender of a company of infantry. So, iu tho
next line, cotors, ol the iusautry3 turrito, ot the cavalry. This pas-
sage is au instance os rhetorical amplificatiou.

34. Se non offert· Orelli, Schultz, and Steinmetz place ee be·
immacutatum-Cedit. So Schnlpzand Steinmetz. Orelli,couce·
dic-Tuam se esse, Orelli, Schultz, and Steinmetz, with Ernesti,
omit se, nuderstaudiug gloriam. Tuuru = tui arbitrii, or iu tua po-
testate positam,

Cu. liu-a ἵ. Barbaros. The Gauls, Germaus, Britons.

38. Innumerabiles· The Gauls, and especially the Alexan-
ditans-Locis infinitos. Britain, Africa, Spain, and Pontus.

39. nt before nutrirem is omitted hy Orelli, Schultz, and Stein-
metz.

40. Vinci. Schultz reads vinci oiposseut. Orelli suggests vinci
ut possent.

42. Animum vincere, quia animus invictus hahetur. De Fiu.
3, 22, recte inuictus (habebitur aomina), cujus otium si corpus cou-
stringatur, aurine torueu viuculo injici nullu possint. Compare
Horace, Epi l,2: Animum tege, qui nisi paret, imperat-Victo-
riam temperore. Z. 414. What is the proper construction os tem·

 

