274 werne.

ἓξ tt. Devicta est. The streugthoued <leviora is well choson with

reference le vicli eud irreictes.

70 Cu. V.—l· utque hee. .,. judicium . . . . quem late potent
attonite. 'l'his turn ot* thought could be only ogroeeble te theson·
uto, oud not oll'ousire lo Ciusnr, who sought to luy others under oblige-
tieus to himself. 'rho lover shown to lllnrcollus seemed to give ns-
surunce to ether Peurpeiuns, thet they might expect lihe clenreucy.
Ou lho uutieiputiou, hy which tho suhject ol' tho dependent clause is
mede tlre ohject ol' the loediug clause, seo note ou p. 56, line 15.
With whnt veihsis this tho ceso iu Cicero?

3. Fato .... neseio que. llere egum, us 6 12, hom unwillingness
to contemplato the origin el' the civil wer, Cicero hurries ou, merely
iu passing culliug it un nulruppy eud mourul'ul destiuy thet forced tho
followers el' l‘empey te erius. On nescio poc, see Z. 553.

1. ter-roris hunreni- By euphemism, to sel'teu the expression.
So iu ng„ und iu his letters, where Cicero teuclres upon this subject.
—il scelere . . .. titur-uri euricus. Cicero regularly joius tho simplo
ablativo with liberere where tho notiori is not persounl. Ζ4 468,

6. lleel· Some read iter·uiu; his first restoration being when he
was recelled l'rem exile.

’1. Nullo deprecante. Z. 676 oud 638.

8. Sihi ipsos. Orelli, Schultz, end Steinmetz read sihi ipris. Iu
the next llue nlter videtis, Steinmetz places n colon, aud quotes the
scoot Anteros. iu support of it: Qeuru eoo, inquil, 0. casei, ptri
contre se pro Pompeio eruite ceperunt, ie senatum introduxit, hostes
eorzfut'sse judicavit.

12. Quo quidem in hello. Z. 743.

11. OrntIouem cIviurn pacem flagitantium. Under this more
comprehensive loun Cicero deubtless includes hirnsell especially, but
he did uot wish distinetly to say meam pacem flagitantis. So he be-
gins the next sentence with, Neque enim ego, &e Compare od Fam.
9, li, 33 lli, 12.

15. nto, Pompeii, whom he avoids mentioniug hy name, as osten
in the Ligarius. so below, horru'neoz lor euin, er in a merely general
wey, without regord to his relation to the state, therefore not virum,
referring te the implied genitive in itta errrra.

16. Mea consilia pacis· See od iltt, 7, 14, aud 7, 5.

18. Privato consilio. From consideratione of personel obliga-
tiou, not to servo the iuterests ol the stete See od Foru. 6, 5, 63
nd Art. 8, 3, 2. Consilio I judge to be a mispriut iu the edition of
Klotz, os l find officio iu all othere, except'Sfipfle's who copies from
Klotz. Klotz himself notices uo uariatior from Orelli, who else, with-
out seriatim», gives officie.

20. Prudens et solens. Prudens douotes' ouo who hus ready
practicel views eud circumspectiori, siricus, oue who possessos the re·

 

