5i nore delicians, we should expect pared tram, antm, &a But instead
os the second member with qnod, in imitation os the Greek usage, a
now sentence begins with norit.

42. Solutiono impedita. Payments were suspended in Rome
because the publicani andcapitalists had not received returns l'rom
Asia.

43. Non enim possunt . . . ,nt non, &c What ie more com·
mon than ut lion in rhis construction(t How is the clause to be trans-
lated? Z. 538 and 539. Compare below ruere illa non possunt, nt
lecnowbe. ·

52 3. Ratio pecuniarum. Z. dib-In soro, in tabernis argentarie-
rum. The shops os the banlrers were in the cloisters round the
serum.

5. Ina, se. vectigalia Asiatica-Hac, vectigalia Romana.

9. Defenduntnr· Klotz und Madvig read eiciam conjunctae caro
rc pnblr'ca defendantur.

caviac-14. Ne forte a vobis· Z. 651, llladvig‚ne sorte
cacabis.

18. Maximus Mithridatis copias· Appian informs us that the
army of Mithridates, at the beginning of the third war, consisted of
leuabo infantry and labet] cavalry. Lucullus had only 3ll‚t]ll[l in-
santry and 1500 cavalry. Cicero, in order to elevate Lucullns's bra-
rcry, first mentions illithridates’ prosperous condition, and then pre-
ceeds to the victory gained by Lucullus.

19. Urbem . . .. Cyzicenorum, &e See Sebmitz, Rana, p.
382.

23. Liberavit. In grateful remembrauce os tha relies which he
brought, the inhabitants celebrated a yearly festival, called Lucullcu.

24. Ducibus Sertorianis. avenne Lucullus gained two na-
vel battles; one near Tenedos, the other near Lemnos, where Varius
was taken and put to death, since he Wfls a Roman senator and could
not be led in triumph-Studio alque odio inflonnnuta. Madvig omits
atque odic. Others read s. e. o. inflammato.

28. Sinopen atque amisum. The former was a city aud Gre-
cian colony in Paphlagonia, on the Black Sea, and the birthplace of
thecyaic, Diogenes. The latter was a city and Grecian colony in
Pontus—Ex cinni edita. Benecke directe attention to the rarer use
of er where ab might be expected.

29. Domicilia. The Asiane kings had palaces in several places.

32. Patrio atque avito. This was the sixth from Mithridates I.
the founder of the kingdom.

33. Ad alias gentes, sc. Iberos, Caspios, Albanos et utrosque y
Armenios.

35. atque ita. Understaud esre again, i. e. atque ita laudatum
esse Lucullum.

 

