raino onnurou ncnrnsr cerrima. 197

re e
eique illi ipsi, quos modo nominavi, consulares senatusque cunctus Ξ

assensus est, qui bonos post conditam bono urbem habitus est togato
aute nte nemini. So Fam. 15, 4, ll, to Cato: tu idem milri supplicu-
tionem decrevisti togato, non, ut orrultis, re publica bene gesta, sed,

ut nemini, re publica conseruata. It has been inquired how the decree
could bavo spoken of Cicero's saviug ltaly from a war. Klotz replico,
from a war with the Allobroges, whom the conspirators would have
brought into Italy. Compare Cicero’s own words, quoted above: blais
consiliis, ouer's laboribus, ozei capitis periculis . . . . incensione urbem,
internecione ciues, vastitate Italiam, interitu reru publicoru libe-
ravi.

32. Quod urbem, boc. So Fam. 5, 2: qui curiam eade, urbem
incendiis, Italiam bello liberasset. observo the cbiostic arrangement
in this sentence, which ie quito common where tbe sentence consistS,
as this does, os three clauses; the lst and ud, aud the ad and Sd are
mutually arranged under this figure.

34. supplicationibus. The repetition os this word alter ceteris
aud of religione below with ea, is expressive of the emphasis which
Cicero attachcs to the words-Hoc intersit. “ Ern. monet, modestius
hoc esse, quam Grani interest. τοῦτο διαφέροι dr. Clinirmbid. Sed
respondet ctiam verbis si conferatur? bl.

37· Factum atque transactum est. This was a regular phrase
used by lawyers, in contracts, deedsy aa, to express that all the ue-
cessary steps hod been taken, and that the transaction was concluded.
Hence it is adopted by other writers: e. g. Ter. Andr. l, 5, 13: quot
rnodis contemptus, spretus? faeta, transacta omnia. berni bl.—
Nom P. Lentulus, &a Thesara lseupleuatory. Cicero begins to
explain how all the proper preliminary steps had beon taken.

38· patefactus. Klotz reads patefactis.

40. Magistratu sc abdicavit. Not willingly, but of uecewity.
4 Cat. <j 5. ntagisnates, from regsrd to the public service, were ex-
enrpt from cumina] prosecution, during the term of their office, unless
they perrnitted the prosecution, or uoluntarily abdicated, or were by
oontrolliug circumstances compelled to abdicate. Observa that the
regular classical construction is abdicare se aliqua re. The historiens
after Sallust uso also abd. aliquid-Qua religio . . . . non suerat, qno
minus, Religio est = a scruple or doubt hinders or deters, is con·
strued with quo uriuus aud the subjunctive, according to P. G. 94 3 Ζ,
543. Translate, That lrom tho scruple which had not deterred Marius
from putting to death, &a

41· 0· Glauciam· G. Servilius Glaucia, Corcoras. See
Schmitz, Rome, p. 349.

gu. VIL-l· captos . . . . tenetis. Cf. constrictam . . . . teneri, 33
1 atti.

3. Opes: auxilia, praesidia, posita in multitudine sociorum

17*

 

