338 - uerus.

rago
94derivable from the conseiousnsss of suffering for an involnnlary error,

not so Antiochus. 2. He owed to Casar's generosity what ho retained,
his horeditary dominions and regul title, which latter uvas to him every
thing. 3. He had two sources of consolation lost, ot which he could
not be deprived 3 tho decroes of tho Roman generals and sonate in his
favor, aud tho consciousness of his oum virtue. These he illustratos
in §32 4. He has a letter irem caesar himself encouraglng him to
hope sor tho hest, eh. 14, by which he was greatly choered and inspi-
red. ⁵ All this shows that Deiotarus is sully sousible of his obligations
to Caesar, and is therefore deserving of being received into his friond-
ship.

16. Metuo, no ..... vercor‚ne. Z. saa-June vereor: Ζ.
748.

lt. Sncconsore aliquid. Z. 385.-Milri crede. P. G. peso,

111; Ζ. 801, in fin.

18. Quid enim retineat· His liso,1mnreof king, and part of
Galatia-Quid nililssrit. Armenia and tho tetrarohy ot' tho Trocmi.

20. Multis tani multa esso tribuenda· Ζ. 651. Dion Cass.
43, 47, relatos that Caesar chose lourteen prators, sorty qnastors, and
increascd tho number of senators to nine hundred. Πολλοῖς γὰρ δὴ
πολλὰ elanguens οὐκ εἶχεν ὅπως σφᾶς ἄλλως ἆμείψεται.-ριιοπὶίηίιδ. . ..
savarres, uon recusavit. Z. 543.

22. Antiochus. The third, king of Syria. He was first beaten,
1. u. c. 563, at Thermopylae by Acilius Glabrio, and soon after, 564,
completely conquered by L. Scipio Asiaticus on Mount Sipylus near
Magnesiam Asia, and deprived of all his dominicus west of Mount
Taurus. Cf. p. Sest. 27, {ta-Posteaquam . . . jussus essct. Z. 507,
in fin. Bonecho and Madvig read: quarn, posteaquam . . . . deuictus
est, Tauro tenus, &o Klotz: quum posteaquem.....devictus,
Taurum.

23. Ii. Scipione· The brother of Africanus Major, who was his
lieutonant in this war.

24. (211ae ost nune nostra provincia. This portion of Asia, af-
ter the defeat os Antiochus, tho Romans had given to Attalus, aster
whose death it loll by his will to the Romans.

26. Nimis magna procuratione. Tho care of too extensive do-
minions. If Antiochus so consolod himself sor such losses, u fortiori
may Deiotarus3 for tho ono madly attached tho Roman peoplo at tho
instigation of Hannibal and tho AEtolians, the latter followed Pompey,
as deemiug his cause the better. Deiotarus therefore has innocense
on his sido. For esse suctum, Benecke, Klotz, and Madvig read suc-
tum esse.

28. Multam sustulerat = poenam dederat. Boneclre, Klotz,
and Soldan read sustinuerat, which is the readIng of many MSS.
Madvig and Orelli adopt sustulerat from (lod, Cot, and Madvig ro·

 

