ananan ron arna naroranns. 333

riae

u

31. Ipsius belli, i. e. without regarding tho good ol the cause. 92

But Benecke takes it as = ejus ipsius¹ Cicero haring already spoken
of Castor's zeal in the cause of Pompey, Iu this case ipse commonly
stands besore its suhstantivey and ii Cicero had spoken 'ol warin gen·
aral, he would have said hetti ipsias. Madvig reads illins.

32. Felix ista domus. Cicero compares the lortunes of tho
two terminasti order to excite odium against the one, and pity to·
wards the other. They wera both in Pharsalia Marktheconse-
quence. Castor is not only restored to Caesar¹s savor¹ bnt permitted
to accuso others. Deiotarus is allowed to be arraigoed by one who
was iu Pharsalia as well as ha, iyho is his oxyn grandson, and before
Caesar, at once the injured party and the judge.

33· Calamitosus Deiotarus. The † shows that the passage is
doubtful. Benecke from some MSS. gives qai et ab eo, which Hand,
ans. 2, p. 521, approves. Recta sententia unice inest in ea, qnam
olim proposui, conjectura: qai noa inodo alr eo, pai in iisdem castris
faerit, apua te, sed etiarn a sois accusetur. Orelli.

35. Vos vestra. Vestra answers to the preceding ista domas,
and includes Castor and his father.

Cn. itt-38. Sint sane inimicitiae. Admit the existenco of
enmity between the familias, which gratitudo and piety forbid, still
you might bave entertained it like human beings, and not be thirsting
for blood like savage beasts.

40. Quis tuum patrem . . . . quiesset.. . . audivit. See note
on pr 56, lino 153 and p. ΤΟ, line 1. For qai esset sorno MSS. giro
qais esset. What is tha difibrencel Sco Arnold's Nepos, Themist.
8, 6, 2, p. 105.

42. Ingrato ei impie. Ingrato alludes to the saror, impie to
the tie of relationship.

43. Hominum more, i. e. in an open and honest manner; aot
to prefer salse charges3 aot to sack to take away the lise, &c

44. Capitis arcessere. Z. 446, aaa-Esto. It might be sup-
posed that Cicero having convicted Castor of ingratitudo and irnpiaty,
should be obliged to stop there, as crimes so belrrons hardly admitted
of amplification. But hero his art appears ln seerning to accede all
this as trivial, that ha may charge Castor with attempting to shake
the soundations of human society, and to declaro war against mankind.
Compare ch. 1, 3: non rom afflictam region conditionem dolebam,
qaam de fortunis cominooibos extz'rncsoelrornv

1. Adeone. Supply concedi dehet troni the preceding. Benecke 93
and Klotz, in this line, read acerbitatis ct odii.

4. Abaucero domum. To eutice Phidippus from the legates of
Deiotarus to your house.

5. Uni propinquo. Deiotaro.

ἵ. Α tauta auctoritate = ab homino tautae auctoritatis. Comp.

 

